Sokoban YASC - Yet Another Sokoban Clone
Version 1.654
Copyright (c) 2001-2019 Brian Damgaard, Denmark
E-mail: BrianDamgaard@jubii.dk
Website: https://sourceforge.net/projects/sokobanyasc/

Description:
Sokoban YASC - Yet Another Sokoban Clone - for Windows. 
A wealth of features, e.g., deadlock detection, reverse
mode, and replay mode. Good import functions and highly
configurable, e.g., skins. Tools: Editor, solver, 
optimizer, generator, and duplicate finder.


=====
Files
=====

----------------------------------
Click_me_to_install_YASC_1_654.exe
----------------------------------
Self-installing package.
To install the game, download this file and run it.

If you have installed an older version of the program, you should
*not* uninstall it first. It is better to install the new version
on top of the old one, because that way your settings, your own
levels, and your solutions of any of the built-in levels are
preserved.

After installation, start the program from Windows' start menu:
. Start
.   Programs
.     Sokoban
.       Sokoban YASC

------------------------------------
Click_me_to_install_YASC_1_654SE.exe
------------------------------------
Self-installing package.
To install the game, download this file and run it.

This is a special edition of the application, allowing for bigger boards and longer games.

Levels can be 100 x 100 squares with maximum 5000 boxes.
Each game is limited to 250000 moves.

This edition is experimental, and even though it has no known issues, it should not be expected to be as robust as the standard version.

Downloading and installing this package replaces any existing version of the game on the computer.

------------------
YASC_1_654_src.zip
------------------
The complete program sourcecode as one zip-compressed file.
You only need to download this file, if you want to modify or study
the program.

-------------------
YASC_File_1_174.zip
-------------------
A public domain version of a Sokoban file-reader/writer.

The lack of a common file format has always made it difficult to
exchange Sokoban levels and games. The xsb-notation is a de facto
standard for board descriptions, but a standard format encompassing
other types of information, such as moves and notes, has not been
introduced with any success in the past.

The file format presented here aspires to be a new de facto standard
for the game of Sokoban. It supports an unlimited number of levels in
a file, and each level can have notes and an unlimited number of
saved games, i.e., solutions and snapshots. Additionally, a macro
feature allows levels to share a common text such as a copyright
notice.

The format is simple and is based on free-formatted text. It is
(almost) free of keywords, thus, it is almost language independent.
The only language-dependent construction is the notation for moves
which uses "l", "r", "u", and "d" to denote "left", "right", "up",
and "down".

The free-formatted text format makes it easy to edit and create files
by hand, and because of the keyword-free syntax, there is no need
for different programs to agree on a fixed set of keywords like
"Title", "Author", "Website", etc.

A program is free to use key/value pairs as part of the information
for a level or a snapshot. If another program does not support that
particular keyword, the program treats the information as raw text
and no harm is done.

This notion of "text, optionally with key/value pairs" is far
superior to the approach with a fixed set of keywords that some
Sokoban programs have used in the past. 

The format is backwards compatible with old files in xsb-notation,
so the transition to the new format with added support for games and
notes does not cause any inconvenience to the Sokoban community.

All Sokoban programs are encouraged to support the new format, and
with this public domain version of the file reader/writer it should be
easy to do so. 

Sokoban programs are also encouraged to use '.sok' as the file
extension name for files in this format. An example: "MyLevels.sok".

It requires a substantial part of the machinery in a Sokoban program
to read and write levels. Thus, the code provides a good starting
point for writing a complete program.

The accompanying demo-program is a full-fledged Sokoban program. It
has a primitive console-interface and is, of course, not meant for
really playing the game. Its sole purpose is to demonstrate and test
the underlying file-reader/writer and the game engine. It is, however, 
easy to add a proper graphical interface to the program.

If you use the demo-program to write your own program, please note
that while the file reader/writer ("SokUtil" and "SokFile") is in the
public domain, the game engine ("SokGame") is not; it is under the GPL
license. The game engine is identical to the one used in
"Sokoban YASC" and offers a rich set of game features (undo/redo,
pathfinding, snapshots, reverse mode play, etc.)

---------------------------
YASC_Skin_Tutorial_1_02.pdf
---------------------------
A Sokoban YASC skin tutorial by John Polhemus.

The skin tutorial is written in a learn by example fashion. With easy
step by step instructions, the tutorial shows how to draw all the
different game objects, e.g., boxes, goals, and most notably seamless
walls.

After teaching how to draw the basic objects, the tutorial covers
advanced skin features like directional pushers and animations.

The tutorial is written with Sokoban YASC in mind, but the principles
are, of course, valid for drawing skins for all other clones as well.

A final chapture gives an introduction to the embedded settings in
Sokoban YASC skins. Sokoban YASC itself provides little or no
information about this important topic, so the tutorial is a most
welcome first in that respect, helping to get the most out of the
skin drawings.

Please note that the tutorial requires Sokoban YASC version 1.425 or
newer.

---------------
YASGen_1_48.zip
---------------
YASGen - Yet Another Sokoban Level Generator - For Small Levels.

This version of the YASGen Sokoban level generator has a simple
command line interface (CLI). 

The built-in version in Sokoban YASC has a proper graphical user
interface (GUI) and is easy to use, whereas this CLI version offers
fewer features and requires extensive computer skills, so normally the
former is the preferred choice. 

The CLI version is, however, platform independent and GUI-system
independent, thereby making it easy for experts to adapt it and use it
on other operating systems than Windows(r).

The file contains:
. Delphi source code.
. A platform independent FPC Pascal source code version.
. C source code for a basic version of the generator.
. A three-dimensional version, generating levels for 3D-Sokoban.
. A generator for Orimaze-based Sokoban levels.
. A Windows executable program.

--------------
YASO_2_141.zip
--------------
YASO - Yet Another Sokoban Optimizer - For Small Levels.

This version of the YASO Sokoban optimizer has a simple command line 
interface (CLI). 

The version bundled with Sokoban YASC has a proper graphical user
interface (GUI) and is easy to use, whereas this CLI version offers
fewer features and requires extensive computer skills, so normally the
former is the preferred choice. 

The CLI version is, however, platform independent and GUI-system
independent, thereby making it easy for experts to adapt it and use it
on other operating systems than Windows(r).

The file contains:
. Delphi source code.
. Delphi source code for a DLL-plugin version.
. A DLL-plugin version of the solver and optimizer, supporting the
  "Common Sokoban Plugins Interface".
. A Windows executable program.

--------------
YASS_2_141.zip
--------------
YASS - Yet Another Sokoban Solver and Optimizer - For Small Levels.

This version of the YASS Sokoban solver and optimizer has a simple
command line interface (CLI). 

The version bundled with Sokoban YASC has a proper graphical user
interface (GUI) and is easy to use, whereas this CLI version offers
fewer features and requires extensive computer skills, so normally the
former is the preferred choice. 

The CLI version is, however, platform independent and GUI-system
independent, thereby making it easy for experts to adapt it and use it
on other operating systems than Windows(r).

The file contains:
. Delphi source code.
. A platform independent FPC Pascal source code version.
. A special version for solving Sokoban puzzles built from Orimaze puzzles.
. A previous version using another algorithm (IDA) which can
  find both push-optimal solutions and move-optimal solutions for
  some small levels.
. Delphi source code for a DLL-plugin version.
. A DLL-plugin version of the solver and optimizer, supporting the
  "Common Sokoban Plugins Interface".
. A Windows executable program.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Change Log
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Version 1.654
. Improved the level normalization tool a little. A very few levels 
  could be further reduced by running the level normalization twice. 
  This is not necessary anymore. A small run-length encoded level 
  example: The level 
  5#|#3-#|#*@-#|#*$-#|#-.-#|#*--#|#--##|#*-#|#*-#|#--#|4# was reduced 
  to -4#|-#--#|-#@-#|##$-#|#-.-#|#*--#|#--##|4# in the first round, 
  and then to 4#|#--#|#@-#|#$-#|#.-#|#--#|4# in the second round. 
  Thanks to Anian Wu for reporting this issue.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.653
. Minor changes.

Version 1.652
. Added a new minor feature: Fill (tile) the gameplay window 
  background with an image scaled and aligned with the floor squares 
  of the currently opened level. It has always been possible to tile 
  the background "normally", i.e., with an unscaled image. This new 
  feature makes it possible to create the effect that the game board 
  has floor squares outside the outer wall, an effect used by some 
  skins and some Sokoban clones. To activate it (for a skin with the 
  proper imagery), this option in the "Settings" window is available:
  "Graphics | Background | Image | View = Floor tile". Thanks to 
  Sokobano for bringing this up.
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Miscellaneous | On 
  pressing the [Esc] key in the main window" with default value "Exit
  application", which is what the application always has done until 
  now. The new possible choices are "Minimize window", "Restart game
  (like [Home])", and "Do nothing".
. Bugfix (1.652,  early versions): When playing a level with multiple 
  views on the screen, the highlighting frame around the currently 
  selected view was not displayed after toggling between normal 
  (forward) gameplay and reverse mode gameplay.

Version 1.651
. Made the necessary modifications to compensate for drive letter 
  changes when the application runs as a portable application from a 
  removable disk, e.g., an USB memory stick. Currently, there is no 
  built-in procedure for creating a portable version, but the Sokoban 
  YASC source code package contains a crude script file which can do 
  the job: "Click_me_to_install_YASC_portable.bat". After entering the 
  drive letter and the path where the portable version is to be 
  installed, e.g., "G:\YASC", the application and all the relevant 
  files (e.g., all installed solver plugins)  are copied to the 
  destination folder. To launch the portable version, select the file
  "YASC.bat" in the destination folder. Thanks to Shane Bowman for 
  suggesting a portable version.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.650
. Improved the level normalization tool a little, so it's better at 
  finding and eliminating dead end rooms. A small run-length encoded 
  level example: The level 3-5#|4#@--#|#--#-$-#|#5-.#|#--5#|4# is 
  normalized to 5#|#@--#|#-$-#|#--.#|5#. Thanks to Anian Wu for this 
  suggestion.  The improvement is always active when levels are 
  normalized in the level editor. The duplicate finder tool, on the 
  other hand, disables the improvement by default because the 
  improvement requires a time-consuming calculation, tripling the 
  running time. To enable/disable all normalization methods for the 
  duplicate finder, use this already existing option in the "Settings" 
  window: "Control | Duplicate finder | Advanced identity check".

Version 1.649
. Skins galore: 7 more Sokoskinner skins have been found and added to 
  the collection, bringing the total up to 217 Sokoskinner skins. See 
  the version 1.647 release notes for download instructions. Thanks to
  Joris Wit for finding these 7 skins.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.648
. Skins galore: 27 more Sokoskinner skins have been found and added to 
  the collection, bringing the total up to 210 Sokoskinner skins
  (current status: 217). See the version 1.647 release notes for 
  download instructions. Thanks to Jordi Domenech for sharing an older 
  snapshot of the Sokoskinner collection, including these 27 skins.
. The skin format includes two slots inherited from the original 
  YSokoban skin format which Sokoban YASC doesn't use: "Immovable-box-
  on-floor" and "immovable-box-on-goal". There is no reason for 
  having them or using them because when the user queries about 
  movable boxes in a given game position, the natural solution is 
  instead to draw attention to the movable boxes by displaying the
  skin's box highlight animation for these boxes. Nevertheless, the 
  slots have now been filled in for all the accompanying skins, just 
  to show how to do it right. The astonishing fact is that literally 
  everybody else has until now created skins in YSokoban format the 
  wrong way, filling in these slots with imagery which highlights the 
  immovable boxes, typically by splashing a crude, ugly red "X" or 
  "no admittance" sign on top of the box drawings. This is the exact 
  opposite of what the user needs, and the correct solution is, 
  naturally, to dim the immovable boxes, not to highlight them.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.647
. Skins galore: The huge skin collection with 183 (current status: 
  217) high-quality skins by Sokoskinner (Annie Lee) has been 
  converted from their original Sokoban++ format to the so-called 
  "common skin format". Each individual skin has been equipped with 
  hand-tailored settings for the best viewing experience in Sokoban
  YASC. Even though Sokoban YASC is agnostic about the skin format and
  also can load Sokoban++ skins directly, it's often more convenient 
  with skins in the common skin format, also so other Sokoban clones 
  with support for that format can use the skins. The Sokoskinner 
  skins are not GPL-licensed material, so they cannot be bundled with 
  Sokoban YASC, and you must find them elsewhere on the internet. Look
  for an installation package named something like
  "Click_me_to_install_SokoSkinner_skins_for_Sokoban_YASC_1_2.exe",
  where the version number may change over time. At the time of 
  writing, the installation package can be found on this website:
  "http://sokoban.dk/". It's also available via this link, for a 
  limited period of time after publication of this Sokoban YASC 
  version:  "https://www.dropbox.com/s/8887vb0dcnhyd60/Click_me_to_
  install_SokoSkinner_skins_for_Sokoban_YASC_1_2.exe?dl=1". Members of 
  the Yahoo Sokoban group can also download the skins from this 
  website: "https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/sokoban/info".
. New feature: In the main gameplay window, right-click the "Settings"
  button, or press F4, to load the next skin from the current skin 
  folder. This is much more convenient than going through all the 
  trouble of first opening the settings window (an easy way to do that 
  is to press F2) and then the skins window (an easy way to do that is
  to press F2 again). Combining the right-click or the F4 key with the 
  shift key loads the previous skin in the folder.
+ New feature: Export skins. Sokoban YASC is agnostic about the skin 
  format and can (with a proper format description) load skins from
  any Sokoban clone which uses bitmap images and/or text files in
  INI-file format. This includes several of the existing major PC 
  Sokoban clones. Often, it's more convenient to convert foreign skins 
  to the so-called "common skin format", also so other Sokoban clones
  with support for that format can load the skins. This new export 
  feature can be found in the "Settings" window in form of the new
  menu item "Skins | Export skin...". Only basic skin information is 
  exported, in particular animation imagery, if any, isn't exported. 
  In practice this is not a severe limitation, and it means that the 
  exported skin always is a standard format skin with images arranged 
  in a 4 columns x 8 rows grid. Please note, however, that there is 
  this new option in 'Settings': "Control | Tools | Skin export | 
  Base format, columns x rows". The default is the economical minimum 
  4 x 4. If the skin is intended for use with other Sokoban clones, 
  you may need to change the value to the standard 4 x 8 layout, which 
  fills in the animation frames even though the resulting "animation" 
  just is a still picture.
. New menu item on the "Settings" window menu: "Skins | Load default 
  skin... | Default buttons and background". This new menu item can be 
  either checked (default) or unchecked. When checked, loading one of 
  the default skin variants also loads the default blue buttons and 
  the default blue sky background image. The rationale is that after 
  having loaded other skins, with their own buttons and background 
  images, it may be too difficult or too much work for a casual user
  to figure out how to restore the original buttons and background via
  the tree view, which contains all the settings organized in 
  a hierarchical structure.
. The default maximum skin zoom factor has been changed to 200%. 
  Earlier, it was simply the maximum allowed value, 999%. This had the
  unpleasant effect, that an unfortunate combination of a skin with
  small images, a small level with few columns and rows, and a large
  window on the screen could force the image scaling to go much higher
  than its physical limits for producing imagery with a reasonable 
  quality. Normally, there is no reason to go beyond 200%, and for all 
  skins with a reasonable image quality, image scaling always produces 
  good enough results up to at least that limit.
. Added a new minor feature to the duplicate finder: "Create new 
  collection with currently displayed levels". One of the duplicate 
  finder options is to find the duplicates of a given collection. 
  After having found these duplicates, the application offers the 
  choice of displaying the collection subject to various filters, 
  e.g., "levels in the collection with no duplicates" and "levels in 
  the collection with no solutions". With this new feature, a copy of 
  these filtered levels can be written to a new level file. Thanks to 
  Sokobano for this suggestion.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.646
. Added a new minor feature to the level and skin capture tool: "Load 
  the scaled view of the image as a new image". The capture tool has 
  always had an image zoom feature to help improve the mouse pointing 
  accuracy. Upscaling the view of an image, however, doesn't change
  the mouse pointing granularity. After upscaling, it's still 
  impossible to split the original pixels in, say, halves or quarters. 
  For some types of captured, inaccurate images, it may help to do so, 
  i.e., to split the original pixels in halves or quarters. This new 
  feature makes it possible to do that. Thanks to Anian Wu for this 
  suggestion.
. The image zoom feature in the capture tool had some outmoded image 
  size limits, unsuitable for taking a screenshot on a 4K monitor 
  (3840x2160 pixels). The new limits allow a 200% zoom factor for a 4K 
  screenshot, but not 400%.

Version 1.645
. Bugfix: There are two versions of Sokoban YASC: The standard version 
  with a 50x50 board size limit, and an experimental special version 
  with a 100x100 limit. On rare occasions, while playing a level in 
  reverse mode, the special version could cause a so-called stack 
  overflow error, leaving the Windows operating system no other choice 
  but to terminate the program with a "The program has stopped 
  working" error message. (Technical information: The large board size
  for the special edition requires a lot more runtime stack memory. In 
  reverse mode, checking a box-pull for creating a "freezing box" 
  deadlock depends on a recursive search. This search used more stack 
  space per recursion depth than strictly necessary, something which 
  made the search vulnerable to stack overflow errors when facing very 
  deep recursion depths caused by levels with "snake game" box 
  configurations.) Thanks to Anian Wu for reporting this bug.

Version 1.644
. The feature "Calculate pushes lower bound" has been improved. 
  Earlier, the calculation often took too long time to be of practical 
  use for many large levels. Now the calculation can be made in a few 
  seconds for many of these large levels. Please see the built-in help 
  text, or the version 1.572 release notes, for information about how 
  to use this feature. 

Version 1.643
. Bugfix: With multiple views of a level on the screen, and then 
  importing continuation moves from the clipboard leading all the way
  to a new best solution which dethroned an earlier found solution, 
  then the new best solution was registered correctly. On the screen, 
  however, it appeared as if the currently opened view showed the 
  solved position, but if the user tried to step though the solution 
  moves here (as opposed to opening the new solution in another view), 
  then the player made seemingly random jumps on the board, completely 
  unrelated to the actual solution. Thanks to Andrea Bini for 
  reporting this bug.

Version 1.642
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Move animation | Animate 
  moves on mouse wheel up/down, if animation is enabled" with default 
  value "No". Put differently, when using the mouse wheel to undo/redo 
  moves, the default behavior is now that the moves are performed 
  instantly. Earlier, mouse wheel up/down animated the moves according
  to whether move animation was enabled or not. Thanks to Matthias 
  Meger for pointing out that the new default behavior is better.

Version 1.641
. The two skins "AntiqueDesk" and "Nightshift3" by Gerry Wiseman 
  worked perfectly all right, but they used an obsolete syntax for 
  their accompanying settings, having a header line with square 
  brackets around the skin name, e.g., "[Nightshift3]". The common 
  so-called INI file syntax uses square brackets to denote a section 
  header. If the skin file for some unusual reason was renamed, the 
  user had to update the bracketed name in the settings accordingly, 
  something the user could not be expected to know or notice. For 
  exactly that reason, it was only the very first versions of the 
  application which relied on bracketed header lines to identify the 
  beginning of the settings embedded in the skin image. Thanks to Tyge 
  Fogh for reporting that the two mentioned skins used the old syntax.

Version 1.640
. Bugfix: In the "Open" window, the file task operations "Copy", 
  "Move", "Delete", and "Rename" did nothing if the user had edited 
  level notes right before the file task operation. No harm was done, 
  but some of the file task operations displayed a spurious error 
  message on the screen.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.639
. Bugfix: The "Capture levels and skins" tool updated an already 
  captured skin incorrectly in scenarios like this one: Originally, 
  the skin had been captured from an image with the player on a goal 
  square. Later, the skin was used for capturing a level from an image 
  with the player on a floor square. If the user in that session saved 
  the skin manually (as opposed to letting the application save it
  automatically) or decided to use the skin for playing the game, then 
  the player-on-goal image in the skin was overwritten by the 
  player-on-floor image, even though the skin recognized both images 
  correctly when the skin was used for capturing levels from other 
  images.

Version 1.638
. Bugfix: The accompanying YASS Sokoban level solver classified a few 
  too many game positions as deadlocked positions. The bugfix reduces 
  the score from 85 to 84 solved levels of the 90 levels in the 
  XSokoban level set, the quasi standard Sokoban solver test suite. It 
  may sound strange that bugfixes make the result worse, but it 
  happens frequently in Sokoban solver programming, when the bug has 
  to do with deadlock detection. Classifying too many positions as 
  deadlocks reduces the number of positions the solver has to deal 
  with, and often this makes the task easier for the solver. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.637
. Added two more divider widgets to the "Open" window; one between the
  thumbnail preview of the selected level and the textual level
  information, and another between the folder list box and the file
  list box. The window already had two divider widgets for other
  groups of information, and after adding the two new ones, the window
  layout is very flexible, making it easy for the users to adjust the
  layout according to their personal preferences and needs. Thanks to
  Tyge Fogh for bringing this up.
. The accompanying YASS solver and YASO optimizer have changed policy
  regarding unsolvable levels which happen to be valid and possibly
  solvable after normalization, e.g., after removal of boxes and goals
  which the player cannot reach. Now YASS and YASO classify these
  levels as unsolvable and reject them. Earlier, the YASS solver could
  return a solution of the normalized level to the host application
  (e.g., Sokoban YASC), leaving the host no other option but to
  discard the solution because it wasn't a solution of the original
  version of the level. Thanks to Matthias Meger for pinpointing this
  discrepancy by means of the following level example. 8#|#@$.#$.#|8#
. Bugfix: Opening the "Settings" window and closing it again without
  making any changes by clicking the "OK" button (as opposed to
  closing it by clicking the "X" close window button or the "Cancel"
  button) caused display troubles the next time the "Open" window was
  activated. The thumbnail previews of the levels were garbled until
  the user resized the window or closed the application. The canvas
  was never cleared, so when the user browsed through the levels in a
  folder or a file, each level was drawn on top of all the previous
  ones. It was only a cosmetic error and no harm was done.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.636
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Do/undo moves | Shift 
  key action" with default value "Show Snapshots and Solutions 
  window". This is how it always has worked, but now the shift key can
  alternatively substitute the up arrow key, combined with remapping 
  the up arrow key so it acts the same as the down arrow key. This is 
  ergonomically better for some keyboards, where the up and down arrow 
  keys are half-size keys sharing one slot in the keyboard layout. The 
  remapping applies to both shift keys. Ideally, the remapping should 
  be implemented for the right shift key only, but for some unknown 
  reason the application doesn't receive information about which shift 
  key was pressed. Thanks to Carlos Montiers for this suggestion.
. The "create level prefilled with walls" feature found in the level 
  editor has been significantly improved by adding a new constraint,
  discarding all level candidates having a 2xN floor area which is
  connected to the rest of the board by just one floor square.
  Occasionally, one area of this type on the board would be
  acceptable, but the generator in its current form tends to overdo
  it, so it's better to reject them entirely.
. A console mode version of the YASGen Sokoban level generator can be 
  downloaded from the same website as Sokoban YASC. A new application,
  "YASGenOrimaze", has been added to that package. This new 
  application generates Sokoban levels constructed from Orimaze 
  puzzles (see the 1.632 release notes for a description of Orimaze 
  puzzles). The application has found the longest Orimaze puzzles of 
  dimensions 1x1..8x4, 5x5, and 6x5. The package contains Sokoban 
  levels, including solutions, based on all these longest Orimaze 
  puzzles. Thanks to Anian Wu and Matthias Meger for running the 
  time-consuming calculation of the longest 6x5 and 8x4 Orimaze puzzle
  respectively.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.635
. Bugfix: The application didn't handle it gracefully on exit, if the 
  user at that time had pending updates (e.g., new solutions) to an 
  opened Sokoban level file in a folder to which the user had no write 
  access rights. The application tried to display an error message, 
  but because the shutdown already was in progress, the message itself
  made the application terminate abnormally with a "memory access 
  violation" error message (not to be confused with the folder write 
  access rights issue). 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.634
. On the "Open" window menu, the default value for the option "Show 
  solutions?" has been changed to "Yes", so the list with levels in a 
  file includes a column showing the best found solution for each 
  level. Earlier, that column was disabled by default in order to save
  screen space, but many users probably never noticed that they can
  get a very useful overview of their solved levels by enabling that 
  column.
. A console mode version of the YASS Sokoban level solver can be 
  downloaded from the same website as Sokoban YASC. In that package, 
  there is also a special version of the solver which can solve 
  Sokoban levels constructed from Orimaze puzzles (see the 1.632 
  release notes for a description of Orimaze puzzles). This special 
  solver has been improved in different ways, making its conversion 
  back and forth between a Sokoban level and its underlying Orimaze 
  puzzle even more forgiving about small deviations from regular 
  Orimaze-based Sokoban levels.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.633
. The release notes for the previous version has been augmented with a 
  detailed technical description of the then introduced new level 
  editor feature "Create level prefilled with walls".
. Bugfix (1.632): The "magnifying glass" image had disappeared from 
  the toolbar image set for the "Capture" window. No harm was done, 
  but the "Select image size" button in the "Capture" window appeared 
  on the screen with a wrong image.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.632
. New feature: The level editor offers a new feature, "Create level 
  prefilled with walls", which attempts to place walls on the board so 
  it has interesting rooms and corridors. These partially  constructed 
  levels can either be used as inspiration, or perhaps more often as 
  seeds for the built-in level generator after selecting one or more 
  particularly interesting candidates. Thanks to Raymond Groenestein 
  for inspiration and a fruitful exchange of ideas about procedural 
  generation of Sokoban levels.

  Technical information
  This walls generator is a significantly improved version of the one 
  presented in Joshua Taylor's PhD thesis "The Procedural Generation 
  of Interesting Sokoban Levels" from 2015 and in his earlier 
  technical report "Procedural Generation of Sokoban Levels" from 
  2011, co-authored by Ian Parberry.
  
  The first notable improvement is that the wall templates are put on 
  the board by means of a recursive backtracking algorithm, very much 
  like the knight's tour algorithm for visiting all the squares on a 
  chessboard, except that the templates are put on the board in spiral 
  order starting from the center. That way, violations of constraints 
  which involve the entire board, such as the "all floors must be 
  connected" constraint, can often be detected early on, thereby 
  reducing  the time spent searching futile paths.

  The second notable improvement is that the constraints dealing with 
  the entire board, such as the "all floors must be connected" 
  constraint, are checked each time a 3x3 region of the board has been 
  filled (5x5 squares including the template border). Taylor's program 
  only performs these checks as a post-processing step, making it 
  highly unlikely that larger level candidates ever pass the tests.

  These improvements enable the board generator to fill very large 
  boards, say, up to about 100x100 squares more often than not, 
  without getting stuck in time-consuming futile search paths, 
  something which Taylor's program cannot be expected to do, in 
  particular not after making the first of the two following further 
  modifications (a few minor ones are not described here).

  Four of Taylor's 17 wall templates have been discarded because they 
  are not believed to contribute in a positive manner. The "all-walls" 
  template takes up space for more interesting wall constellations, 
  and there will be walls enough on the board anyway. The "all-floors" 
  template, and the two templates with a single wall only, can 
  easily produce board candidates which violate the open area 
  constraints.

  The final notable improvement is an additional constraint, 
  discarding all level candidates having a 2xN floor area which is 
  connected to the rest of the board with just one floor square. 
  Occasionally, one area of this type on the board would be 
  acceptable, but the generator in its current form tends to overdo 
  it, so it's better to reject them entirely.

  Taylor's 2015 thesis, SokEvo, and YASGen
  Please note that in his 2015 PhD thesis, Taylor misrepresents the 
  level generator algorithm found in Lee J Haywood's SokEvo program 
  and my YASGen program. It is the back end of these generators which 
  is in question here, and both of the programs use my YASGen code. 
  Originally, SokEvo used the code I had written for it, and later 
  Haywood rewrote it to match his personal taste, without changing the 
  functionality.

  In his 2015 thesis, Taylor writes:
  :: Of particular relevance are SokEvo and YASGen, 
  :: which use genetic algorithms to place the walls, goals, and boxes
  :: and then attempt to solve the generated levels in reverse.

  This is not true, of course. The programs would be far too 
  inefficient to be of any practical use if they really tried to solve
  levels in reverse. Solving a level implies that the level has been 
  fully constructed with boxes and goals, possibly leaving it to the 
  generator/solver to choose a suitable player position. 

  But putting boxes and goals on the board and then expect the 
  resulting level to be solvable is hopelessly over-optimistic, and 
  the generators would waste most of their time just proving levels to 
  be unsolvable, or not solvable under the given time and computer 
  memory limits. 

  Long before Taylor published his 2015 thesis, both Haywood and I 
  explained it to him in great detail that we use a backward 
  breadth-first search for the farthest state from the goal state.

  On 2011-10-24, Haywood explained it very clearly to Taylor here: 
  (date retrieved: 2016-20-11)

  https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/sokoban/conversations/messages/4577

  The misrepresentation of what SokEvo and YASGen do, makes Taylor's 
  generator, as presented in his 2015 thesis, look more special than 
  it is, when it uses that method. 

  In contrast, back in the 2011 technical report, Taylor and Parberry 
  were legally excused, so to speak, when they wrote that their 
  program was the first one to use that method because it had not been 
  described earlier in the academic literature at that time, and 
  except for the - in this connection - rather obscure but actually 
  very detailed description found in the built-in help text in 
  Sokoban YASC, there was no other known material stating otherwise.

  It's not exactly rocket science to figure out that a backward 
  box-pulling breadth-first search for the farthest state from the 
  goal state is the best way to generate Sokoban levels, and 
  unsurprisingly, SokEvo and YASGen are also not the first programs 
  to have used that method. The first known program using that method 
  is SokoGen by Jack Duthen. Later, he gave a fine description of his 
  program here: (date retrieved: 2016-20-11):

  https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/sokoban/conversations/messages/4789

. The console mode version of the YASS Sokoban level solver can be 
  downloaded from the same website as Sokoban YASC. In that package, 
  there is now also a special version of the solver which can solve 
  Sokoban levels constructed from Orimaze puzzles. Orimaze is a 
  sliding block puzzle similar to the 15 puzzle, where the player 
  moves tiles around on a board with only one free slot. But in 
  contrast to the 15 puzzle, each tile is labeled "horizontal" or 
  "vertical" and can only move along its designated axis. The package 
  contains both a stand-alone console mode version of this solver and
  a plug-in version which works together with host applications like 
  Sokoban YASC.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.631
. Michael Vinther has kindly updated the license for his ImageFileLib 
  package, so it now is dual-licensed: Either its original license, or 
  GPL version 2, or later. Sokoban YASC uses the PNG relevant parts of 
  ImageFileLib to load images in PNG format, and the license 
  information has been updated accordingly. Recently, a clash between 
  the letter and the spirit of the original license was discovered, a 
  clash which in effect made the original license incompatible with 
  the GPL license. The original ImagefileLib license permits usage in 
  "freeware products and free source distributions either in the 
  original or modified form. I [Michael Vinther] only require that my 
  name is mentioned in the program". So far, this is fully compatible 
  with, and in the spirit of, GPL. But the original license has also 
  this clause, which isn't compatible with GPL: "The library may not 
  be used in commercial products without permission from the author". 
  Roughly speaking, GPL protects code so it stays open code. A vendor 
  may use it commercially, also without asking the original author for 
  permission, but the GPL code "taints" the entire project so the 
  vendor is obligated to make all of it open source under the GPL 
  license. Thanks to Michael Vinther for this license update.
. Bugfix: On rare occasions, the accompanying YASS solver caused a 
  memory access error, leaving the Windows operating system no other 
  choice but to terminate the program with a "The program has stopped 
  working" error message. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: The level generator accepts a template (a possibly only 
  partially constructed puzzle board) as seed for the generation. 
  There is a "fixed template" option, which makes the boxes and goals 
  from the template immutable. If that feature was enabled, and if the 
  template was a walls-only board with no boxes or goals, then the 
  generator repeatedly generated level candidates with no boxes, only 
  mutating walls on the board. This happened at such a fast rate that 
  the user couldn't stop the generator by clicking the "Stop" button. 
  No harm was done in the sense that the user could still use all 
  other branches of the application, including leaving the generator 
  window and closing the application normally, but for the remaining 
  part of that session with the application, the generator was 
  inaccessible and running in a busy loop. Now the generator uses its 
  normal mutation policy to add boxes to level candidates based on a 
  walls-only template.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.630
. Significant improvements of the accompanying YASS solver have 
  increased its score from 79 to 85 solved of the 90 levels in the 
  XSokoban level set, the quasi standard Sokoban solver test suite.
  (Current status: 84 solved. See the release notes for version 
  1.638.)
. Added an adaptation of the "Macintosh" skin from Scott Lindhurst's 
  "Sokoban for the Macintosh" program. The source material consisted 
  of low-resolution raster graphics images with only 16x16 pixels for 
  each object, e.g., boxes and walls. Sokoban YASC has always used a 
  high quality image scaling method, when skins are scaled to make 
  the Sokoban puzzles fit the size of the game window, but an object 
  with only 16x16 pixels is too small for upscaling by more than, say, 
  a factor 1.5 before the graphical quality suffers too much. 
  Fortunately, there are specialized so-called pixel art scaling 
  algorithms, which excel in upscaling such low-resolution material.
  With the help of a program featuring the xBRZ algorithm, the skin 
  has been scaled up by a factor 4 to 64x64 pixels for each object 
  with surprisingly good results. Thanks to Scott Lindhurst for 
  permission to distribute this skin under the GPL license, and thanks 
  to Tyge Fogh for collaboration on this adaptation.
. New feature: "Show a grid on top of a skin". Some skins make it 
  difficult to distinguish the individual floor squares on the board, 
  and for some of these skins it may improve their gameplay qualities 
  to draw a grid programmatically on top of the skin. The grid options 
  can be found in 'Settings' under "Graphics | Board | Grid". 
  Appropriate images are required. For instance, the walls must have 
  been drawn with at least a one pixel wide border.
. Added a new minor feature: "Initialize skin with the number of 
  columns and rows (for skins where the automatic detection fails)". 
  Depending on the size of the individual tiles (e.g., walls, boxes, 
  and pusher) in a skin in the "Common skins format", there are some 
  combinations of column counts and row counts where the automatic 
  detection fails. In these cases, this new feature comes to the 
  rescue. It can be found on the menu in the "Skins" window, and it is
  exactly the same initialization as already offered on the same menu 
  under the name "Initialize skin for the capture tool", but the new 
  menu item makes it clear that the initialization now can serve the 
  new purpose too.
. Added two new options to 'Settings': "Graphics | Board | Figures | 
  Player on goal square | Use player image for highlighting reachable 
  squares" and "Graphics | Board | Figures | Box on goal square | Use 
  box image for highlighting reachable squares", both with default 
  value "No". These options come in handy for skins like the newly 
  added "Macintosh", where the player in the player-on-goal image 
  cannot be cleanly separated from the background.
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Miscellaneous | 
  Board dimensions: Show floor count" with default value "No".
. Bugfix: When using the level capture tool and selecting a matching 
  skin for the extraction process, the initially selected folder for 
  the "Open file" dialog was the folder of the most recently opened 
  picture (from which to extract a level), not the folder of the most 
  recently opened skin. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this bug.
. The console mode version of the YASGen level generator can be 
  downloaded from the same website as Sokoban YASC. In that package, 
  there is now also a three-dimensional variant, generating levels for 
  3D-Sokoban. The rules are the same as for normal two-dimensional 
  Sokoban, but with the third dimension added as a twist.
. Bugfix: On very rare occasions, the accompanying YASS level solver 
  could falsely classify a level as unsolvable.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.629
. Windows 10 compatibility: The Windows 10 operating system ships with 
  the default text size set to 150% of the unscaled size. This 
  aggravates a problem caused by the new default behavior recently 
  introduced by the Windows operating system for text sizes bigger 
  than 100%, which in effect makes all texts displayed on the screen 
  by the application look blurry. Sokoban YASC has always been a 
  well-behaved application and has always handled scaling issues 
  itself. The only thing missing was to disable the new default 
  Windows behavior. In this new version, texts again always appear on 
  the screen as they should, but unfortunately, Windows still scales 
  the application specific mouse cursors, making them look ugly. If 
  somebody knows how to disable this scaling, a tip will be highly 
  appreciated.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.628
. Added a new minor feature: "Replay solutions for solved levels". 
  After replaying a solution for the current level, like the normal 
  replay feature always has done, the application automatically 
  advances to the next solved level and replays it, and so on. To use 
  it, keep the keyboard keys [Shift] and [Ctrl] pressed while clicking 
  the "Solution" button on the screen with the mouse. Alternatively, 
  use the keyboard shortcut key combination [Shift] + [Ctrl] + [L]. 
  Thanks to Wayne Campbell for suggesting this feature.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.627
. Bugfix: The accompanying YASS level solver had begun classifying 
  some insolvable levels as invalid levels rather than just unsolvable
  levels. Levels with an immovable box at a non-goal square were 
  affected. No harm was done since the level was unsolvable, so it was 
  just a matter of the wrong explanation appearing on the screen. 
  Thanks to Valdis Berzins for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.626
. The solution optimizer tool allows the user to specify a generic 
  "default settings" optimization mode for a given optimization task, 
  leaving the decision about which mode to use to the currently loaded 
  optimizer plugin, which presumably offers some sort of default value
  selection. Now this actually used optimization mode is shown on the 
  screen while the task is running instead of just showing the text 
  "default settings". When the task has finished, the mode for the 
  task reverts back to "default settings", so the original request is 
  kept intact for any further processing. Likewise, if the 
  optimization was successful and produced a new improved solution, 
  then this new solution inherits "default settings" as optimization 
  mode. Thanks to Paul Voyer for bringing this up.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.625
. Updated the "KSokoban" skin by Anders Widell with animations, 
  improved walls, and boxes with different colors at floor squares and 
  goal squares. Thanks to George Petrov, author of YSokoban, for 
  collaboration on this skin.
. Bugfix: During installation of a new version of the application on 
  top of an existing version, there could theoretically, but extremely 
  unlikely to happen in practice, be a tiny so-called "memory leak", 
  meaning that a small amount of the available computer memory wasn't 
  recycled after it had been used temporarily during the installation. 
  No harm was done. The leak has probably never occurred in practice, 
  and even it has, the leak was too small to have any impact on the
  application's ability to run, and it was gone when the user closed 
  the session with the application which installed the new version.

Version 1.624
. Bugfix: File names with "&" characters were not always displayed 
  correctly on the screen. For instance, in the "Open" window, the 
  short file name on the file list was correct, but the full name 
  displayed as a hint text when the mouse cursor hovered over the file
  name was incorrect. The "&" character was omitted and the next 
  character underlined. This is the default treatment given to "&" 
  characters by the Windows operating system when text is displayed on 
  the screen, and this behavior should be explictly disabled for the 
  file names. It was only a cosmetic error, and no harm was done. 
  Thanks to Park Ju-bin for reporting this bug.

Version 1.623
. Bugfix: There was a logical flaw in the duplicate finder variant 
  which searches for levels similar (not necessarily 100% identical) 
  to the currently selected level. The flaw caused a few similar 
  levels to be overlooked. The more frequently used duplicate finder 
  variants, which search for identical levels, were not affected. 
  Levels undergo a quite sophisticated normalization process before 
  being compared. One of the ingredients of the process is normalizing
  rotations and mirroring. This is important when searching for 
  identical levels, but it was a logical flaw also to apply it when 
  searching for similar levels. Here it is necessary to compare 
  against all 8 rotations/mirroring forms of a level. Thanks to Wayne 
  Campbell for reporting this bug.

Version 1.622
. Windows 10 compatibility: The Windows 10 operating system ships with 
  the default text size set to 150% of the unscaled size. This 
  aggravates a long-standing bug in the Windows operating system 
  (i..e, not a bug in Sokoban YASC) related to the "Minimize" button 
  on the upper right-hand corner of an open window. When the user 
  clicks "minimize" on a secondary window like the "Tools" window in 
  Sokoban YASC, the operating system is responsible for showing the 
  minimized window at the bottom of the screen, but with text settings 
  bigger than 100%, the operating system sends the minimized window 
  outside the visible screen area, and it's not always possible to 
  reactivate the application with Windows 10, leaving no other option 
  but to terminate the task abnormally using the task manager. 
  Earlier, the keyboard shortcut Alt+Tab, i..e, switching between the 
  open applications, could always reactivate the application, also if 
  clicking the icon on the taskbar didn't work. As a work-around, the 
  "Minimize" button is now disabled for all secondary windows in 
  Sokoban YASC. The only window which really needs the "Minimize" 
  functionality is the "Tools" window, and here the users can just as 
  well - and probably already often do - remove the application 
  temporarily from the screen by clicking the application icon on the 
  taskbar. Thanks to Larry Woods for reporting this issue.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.621
. Bugfix: Corrected a typo in the "Settings" window: "detroned" should 
  be "dethroned". Thanks to Park Ju-bin for reporting this typo.

Version 1.620
. In the "Open level" window, the field with the level notes always 
  started in read-only mode in each session with the application. This 
  was a deliberate choice, to protect the notes against stray 
  keypresses, but it can be argued that this is too conservative. Now 
  the read-only state is kept between sessions, so users don't have to 
  enable editing repeatedly if they often edit level notes. This is 
  also consistent with the behavior implemented for solution notes in 
  the "Snapshots and solutions" window, which always has done it that 
  way. Thanks to Paul Voyer for this suggestion.

Version 1.619
. Bugfix: The application wouldn't start an optimizer plugin if the 
  level had the maximum size, i.e., 50x50 squares in the standard 
  version, and 100x100 squares in the special edition. Instead, the 
  message "Invalid level" falsely appeared on the screen in the 
  optimizer status field.

Version 1.618
. Alleviated a benign, subtle, and very small imperfection of the 
  level file format, a phenomenon best described as "false macros". 
  The first level in a level file (only the first level) cannot have a 
  title line header with a "=" character because such a line will 
  instead be interpreted as a key-value pair macro like "Author=NN" 
  belonging to the preceding file header section of the file. The 
  first level may, however, "cheat" by having a title in its comment 
  lines below the board in form of a "Title: xyz" key-value pair, and 
  this title can contain "=" characters. When the program saves the 
  file, this title is also written as a title line above the level. 
  The next time the file is opened, the program reads this new line, 
  not as part of the level, but as a new "false macro" definition 
  belonging to the file header section because of the "=" character. 
  This happens repeatedly each time the file is saved and re-opened, 
  each time adding one more "false macro" line to the file header 
  section. Now the program makes an effort to remove this rare type of 
  "false macros", so the file doesn't grow each time it's saved. 
  Thanks to Larry Woods for reporting this issue.

Version 1.617
. Added a new menu item to the popup context menu in the optimizer 
  window: "Clear area of the board selected for optimization". 
  Sometimes, it's easier with a menu item than using the mouse to 
  deselect the area. Thanks to Findus for this suggestion.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.616
. Improved one of the less important supporting features in the level 
  editor: "Normalize board, making it rectangular" now flood-fills 
  unreachable squares starting from the four sides. Earlier, it used a
  more simple method, essentially "drawing lines with walls" to fill 
  the unreachable squares starting from the four sides. Because the 
  "horizontal lines" could block the "vertical lines" and vice versa, 
  this simpler method sometimes overlooked opportunities for filling 
  unreachable outer squares. Thanks to Anian Wu for suggesting to 
  improve this feature.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.615
. Bugfix: There are two versions of Sokoban YASC: The standard version 
  with a 50x50 board size limit, and an experimental special version 
  with a 100x100 limit. The latest special version had been assembled 
  the wrong way, so it suffered from occasional crashes. Technical 
  information: The large board size for the special edition requires a 
  lot more runtime stack memory, and the special version had 
  mistakingly been compiled with the same rather small stack limit as 
  the standard version.) Thanks to Anian Wu for reporting this bug.

Version 1.614
. Bugfix: On a shutdown or restart of the computer while Sokoban YASC 
  was running, and if the user had not by chance opened the level 
  generator settings window during the session, and if some of the 
  generator settings had non-default values, then the application 
  issued the message "The generator settings have changed. Do you want 
  to save the changes?" No harm was done even if the shutdown or 
  restart was forced and the operating system didn't wait for a 
  response to the message. Any pending unsaved level solutions found 
  during the session would be picked up by the error recovery the next 
  time the application was launched.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.613
. Added an undocumented feature for selecting a push interval to be 
  optimized by the optimizer. The interval is given by the positions 
  of a start marker and an end marker. Normally, when the user clicks 
  and drags the mouse inside the slider area, the nearest marker is 
  moved. Now the middle mouse button always selects and moves the end 
  marker, and it toggles the "repeat interval" mode for the solution.
. Added a new menu item to the optimizer menu in the "Tools" window: 
  "Set optimization interval for all selected solutions". It copies 
  the interval and the interval repeat mode for the currently focused 
  solution to all the solutions selected for optimization. The new 
  menu item can also be found on the right-click context menu for the 
  optimizer task list.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.612
. Added a skin script for importing skins from the "SokobanP" 
  Sokoban clone.
. Added optimal skin settings for new versions of the "Sokoban for 
  Windows" skins "Classic" and "GreenMetallic".
. Added a new skin option for pushers and boxes: "Background color 
  masks exterior pixels only". When activated, all pixels inside the 
  contour are part of the object, even if the pixel color matches the 
  specified background color. Sometimes this option can save the day 
  when skin objects have colors too similar to the background color. 
  Otherwise, the affected interior pixels are transparent when the 
  object moves around on the board.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.611
. Bugfix: In the "Tools" window, the solver, the optimizer, and the 
  generator have almost the same screen layout. The user can customize 
  the size of the different group boxes. Changing the widths worked 
  all right, but setting the height of their common group boxes to 
  something different than the default value made the application 
  reset these group box sizes to default values the next time the 
  application was opened. Thanks to Paul Voyer for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: In the "Solver" window, if the task list was empty, then 
  activating the button "Add remaining levels from the opened 
  collection to the task list" had no effect if the opened collection 
  contained exactly two levels. Thank to Matthias Meger for reporting 
  this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.610
. Each window, e.g., the "Tools" window and the "Open" window, has its 
  own font settings. Normally, an application just inherits these 
  window font settings from the user's global system settings to ensure 
  a uniform overall appearance of the applications running on the 
  computer. It can, however, be practical to have the option to adjust 
  the fonts, in particular the font sizes. Now the window fonts have 
  been made customizable, with individual settings for each window. It 
  goes without saying, that increasing the font size above a certain 
  limit will break the layout of any window, and that it's up to the 
  user - after experiments with different sizes - to choose suitable 
  values which don't break the window layout.
. Added a new minor option in the "Settings" window: "Control | Tools
  | Optimizer | Separate "best moves" and "best pushes" solutions: 
  Initialize optimization accordingly". The default value is "Yes", 
  matching the earlier behavior for levels with separate "best moves" 
  and "best pushes" solutions. When the option value is "No", these 
  solutions are initially put on the task queue with "Settings" as 
  selected optimization method (leaving the choice to the optimizer
  plugin and its settings) instead of "Moves/pushes" and 
  "Pushes/moves" respectively. Thanks to Paul Voyer for this 
  suggestion.
. Bugfix: Remembering the widths of the three horizontally arranged 
  panels in the solver and the optimizer windows from one session with 
  the application to the next had stopped working in one of the 
  previous releases.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.609
. Added about a dozen small improvements and changes, most of which 
  are important even though they are too small to deserve a detailed 
  description.

Version 1.608
. Added a small refinement to the level file reader, so it doesn't 
  misinterpret a text line with a level title like "#50 (3)" as a 
  board line. All the characters happen to be valid board line 
  constituents. To interpret the numbers "50" and "3" as run-length 
  encoding counts, the reader just required a valid board line 
  character after the number. The new version notices that "3" can't 
  be a run-length encoding count because it's not followed by a 
  character denoting a wall, a floor, or an object on the board. 
  Titles ending with a number like in the example occur frequently if 
  the user makes a compilation with levels from several level sets. 
  When necessary, Sokoban YASC adds such numbers to keep all titles 
  unique.
. Bugfix: The duplicate finder tool offers the convenient feature 
  "Synchronize solutions for duplicate levels", which distributes 
  solutions to all similar versions of a level, no matter in which 
  level collection the level is located. On rare occasions, the 
  synchronization missed an opportunity for copying a solution from 
  one level to another. Thanks to Findus for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.607
. Bugfix: The duplicate finder tool offers the convenient feature 
  "Synchronize solutions for duplicate levels", which distributes 
  solutions to all similar versions of a level, no matter in which 
  level collection the level is located. On rare occasions, the 
  synchronization missed an opportunity for copying a solution from 
  one level to another. Thanks to Findus for reporting this bug.

Version 1.606
. Bugfix: On rare occasions, the accompanying YASS solver could 
  terminate abnormally with an "Access violation" error message. If 
  the solver against all odds found a packing order for a large level 
  with more than 85 boxes, but less than 125 boxes, then a flaw in a 
  guard against overflowing an internal table could kick in if the 
  number of intermediate parking squares in the packing order exceeded
  a certain percentage of the number of boxes on the board.
. Bugfix: On rare occasions, the accompanying YASS solver could get 
  caught in a long packing order calculation without noticing that a 
  user-defined time limit should terminate the search. Normally, the 
  calculation checks the time limit frequently, but there was one path 
  through the calculation which ran unchecked, something which 
  affected very large levels only. No harm was done since the user 
  could still terminate the solver manually.

Version 1.605
. Minor changes.

Version 1.604
. Minor changes.

Version 1.603
. Bugfix (1.594): In connection with the "Optimize a range of pushes" 
  feature, there is the supporting minor feature "Create level based 
  on selected range of pushes and copy it to the clipboard". It worked 
  fine, and the created level could be imported and processed by any 
  text editor. The level could, however, not be imported again 
  directly from the clipboard by Sokoban YASC without triggering an 
  error message on the screen because the level name contains several
  "/" characters, as in "Level 22, Solution/Moves 876/340, {Interval 
  125/45 - 296/111}". Many operating systems use "/" as separator 
  between folder names and file names instead of "\". To enhance 
  compatibility, Sokoban YASC treats both characters as separators, 
  and this caused havoc during the import of the level. Thanks to 
  Findus for reporting this bug.

Version 1.602
. New optimizer feature: "Partition solution into subintervals". For a 
  large level with a long solution, it's sometimes helpful to split 
  the solution in subintervals and process them individually by the 
  optimizer. Since version 1.594 it has been possible to select an 
  interval to be optimized, and it's this feature which now has been 
  extended, so starting from the selected interval, the rest of the 
  solution can be split into subintervals of the given size and then 
  optimized. To use this feature, first select an interval. Then open 
  the context menu by right-clicking the task on the task queue with 
  the mouse. Here you'll find the new menu option "Partition the rest 
  of the solution into subintervals". Background information: The 
  accompanying YASO and YASS optimizers split large solutions into 
  subintervals automatically, if the solution size and the memory 
  limits of the computer make this necessary. The new manual split 
  feature can be seen as a light-weight variant of the automatical 
  split, and since the difference can be many hours of computation 
  time for large solutions, the new manual split feature is often 
  preferable. Thanks to Findus for statistics showing that this new 
  feature is useful.
. New optimizer option: In the accompanying YASO and YASS optimizers, 
  the retrograde analysis in the precalculation of deadlocks can be 
  disabled (by setting "deadlock complexity" to 0), so only 
  "first-order" deadlocks are found. This is useful in connection with 
  the new subinterval optimization mentioned above. If the intervals 
  are small and the level is large, then the full-blown precalculation 
  of deadlocks with retrograde analysis can take longer time than the 
  actual optimization, and with small intervals the benefit of having
  a large set of deadlocks available during the optimization is 
  negligable. This new option makes the deadlock complexity a more 
  dynamic value than it used to be, and for that reason, it's now 
  subject to the expire-after-24-hours policy which protects the 
  optimizers against settings tailored for one specific puzzle and 
  then forgotten by the user.
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Tools | Optimizer | 
  Intervals | Subinterval overlap (%)" with default value 10.
. Bugfix: After importing a previously saved solver task list or 
  optimizer task list, the editor window showed an empty board, or 
  more precisely a wall-filled board. No harm was done, and the level 
  showed up correctly again after returning to the main window and 
  then re-opening the editor.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.601
. The text format for puzzles stored in a text file allow run-length 
  encoding of the boards and using "|" as row separators when 
  multiple board rows are combined on a single text line. A "|" at the 
  end of a text line is optional and may be omitted. The newly added 
  support for empty interior rows (version 1.600) was, however, too 
  restrictive about text lines ending with such a redundant "|". As 
  expected, a text line with a single "-" was interpreted as an empty 
  interior row candidate (depending on the context), but if the line 
  ended with "-|", with nothing but empty rows in the line, then it
  was not interpreted as an empty interior row candidate. Thanks to 
  Matthias Meger for noticing and reporting this issue. 

Version 1.600
. Added support for levels with interior empty rows. There are a few 
  levels in existence with empty rows for artistic purposes. Sokoban 
  YASC has always been able to let the user play such levels, but the 
  application didn't allow the user to load them, so in effect this 
  feature was unavailable. The reason was, that the level file format 
  specification had no syntax for a safe interchange of levels with 
  empty rows. This has changed now, thanks to a suggestion by Anian
  Wu. In levels files, an empty square on the board is typically 
  represented by a space character, but "-" or "_" are also allowed as
  alternatives when it's important or convenient with a 
  representation, which graphically makes it easier for a human reader 
  to distinguish the individual squares, and which avoids the common 
  "delete multiple spaces" optimization found in many text processing 
  applications. The new file format specification states that interior 
  empty rows are allowed and written with at least one "-" or "_" in 
  the row. Given that an application can check there are normal board 
  rows both before and after an empty interior row, this small 
  alteration of the syntax is unlikely to introduce many new 
  misinterpretations when arbitrary text files are scanned for Sokoban 
  levels. For implementors, note however that because of the 
  run-length encoding feature, the textual representation of a board 
  row is not necessarily a complete text line. Thanks to Anian Wu for
  suggesting a syntax for interior empty rows, thanks to Matthias 
  Meger and Eric Sunshine for valuable feedback, help, and discussions 
  about this new feature, and thanks to Eric Sunshine for supplying 
  the new text in the file format description.
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Windows | Tools window | 
  Collection name in title-line" with default value "No". Thanks to 
  Findus for this suggestion.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.599
. Added new option to the alternating optimizations machinery in the 
  optimizer tool: "Trigger alternating optimizations at least once", 
  as opposed to "Trigger alternating optimizations only after finding 
  improvements", which is the default behavior and which until now has 
  been the only option. Thanks to Findus for this suggestion.
. Bugfix (1.567): Scenario: In the "Capture levels and skins" tool, at 
  the "Skin" step, selecting to use the captured skin for playing the 
  game in the main window. If the "Settings" window hadn't been 
  visited earlier during the session, then all settings, except those 
  related to the captured skin, were reset to default values. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.598
. Bugfix (1.597): In the "Tools" window, resizing the thumbnail level 
  preview and the other panels had stopped working for all three tools 
  where it should be applicable, i.e., the solver tool, the optimizer 
  tool, and the level generator. Thanks to Findus for reporting this 
  bug.

Version 1.597
. Added a "Select the entire image" button to the "Board" step in the 
  "Capture levels and skins" tool. The functionality has always been 
  available via the menu entry "Edit | Select all", but its usefulness 
  justifies this more prominent exposure. Thanks to Anian Wu for this 
  suggestion.
. Bugfix: Scenario: In the "Capture levels and skins" tool, at the 
  "Board" step, specifying where the board is located in the image. If 
  the zoom factor was bigger than 100%, and if the top or left 
  coordinate of the board was zero, then clicking-and-dragging the 
  mouse to resize the board rectangle didn't work properly.

Version 1.596
. Improved the graphical quality a little when replaying moves in this 
  scenario: The skin in use has very different images for 
  "box/box-on-goal" and/or "pusher/pusher-on-goal", and a box is being 
  pushed from a non-goal square to a goal square, or vice versa, 
  without changing direction. Typically, these skins benefit a lot 
  from the option "Use box/pusher-on-floor images for animation also 
  when the object moves across a goal". When this option is enabled, a
  box doesn't appear as the "box-on-goal" image until the box is put 
  to rest at a square when the pusher changes direction either to push 
  another box, or to push the box again from a different direction. 
  There was, however, a tiny fraction of a second at the transition 
  from a non-goal square to a goal square, where the box was shown as
  a "box-on-goal" even when the push direction didn't change. With 
  very different "box" and "box-on-goal" imagery, and depending on the 
  replay animation speed, this could look like flicker. The 
  improvement only applies to the replay animation. "Do move" and 
  "undo move" animations during gameplay have the same imperfection, 
  but here it's less noticeable because the animation speed is 
  typically much higher than it is for "replay".
. Bugfix: The "Capture levels and skins" tool allows capturing levels 
  even if they don't have a proper border, i.e., a rim filled with 
  walls or boxes at goal squares. This doesn't happen often, but when 
  it does, the capture tool automatically adds a border to guarantee 
  that the level can be saved in a format which a Sokoban clone can 
  recognize and open correctly. There was, however, the problem that 
  before the border was added, the level had been exposed to normal 
  postprocessing, which includes being trimmed for any empty columns 
  and rows. For some borderless levels, this trimming can eliminate 
  board squares needed by the pusher to move around on the board. The 
  new behavior is that a borderless level is never trimmed, but simply 
  consists of the captured area in its entirety. Thanks to Anian Wu 
  for reporting this bug. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.595
. Bugfix (1.594): Scenario: Optimizing a solution-slice succeeded (see 
  version 1.594 release notes), and "glue" moves had been inserted 
  automatically to combine the optimized slice with the rest of the 
  solution. In that case, the optimized solution showed up on the 
  optimizer task queue with a title like "Solution [moves]/[pushes]", 
  but without counting the added "glue" moves. No harm was done 
  because it only affected the appearance on the task queue. Later, 
  when the level was updated with the optimized solution, the title 
  contained the correct number of moves. Thanks to Findus for 
  reporting this bug.

Version 1.594
. New feature: "Optimize a range of pushes". The optimizer tool now 
  supports specifying a range of pushes to be optimized, as opposed to 
  always optimizing the entire solution. This feature comes in handy 
  when working with levels and solutions which are too large for the 
  optimizer. Note that optimizing a non-tail slice gives rise to two 
  or three obstacles for a successful optimization. An optimizer 
  doesn't necessarily produce a move sequence, where the pusher ends 
  at the same square as it did in the original sequence. If the pusher 
  ends in the same access area, then Sokoban YASC helps and inserts 
  optimized non-pushing moves between the last push in the optimized 
  slice and the first push in the non-optimized tail. Depending on the 
  required number of "glue" moves, this can make the combined solution 
  worse than the original, despite the fact that the optimizer 
  improved the processed slice. If the optimized slice ends with the 
  pusher in a different access area than the original, then there is 
  nothing to do, and the optimized slice is discarded. In "Settings",
  there is a new option related to this new feature: "Control | Tools
  | Optimizer | "Wall-ify" boxes outside range of pushes to be 
  optimized". The default value is "Yes", meaning that boxes are 
  treated as walls if they aren't pushed in the selected slice of the 
  solution. This reserves the available memory for trying to push the 
  boxes in the selected slice. For small levels and with optimizer 
  settings which don't cause memory to be exhausted when all boxes are
  considered, it may be slightly better to change the value to "No". 
  To select a range of pushes, use the slider which appears when the 
  mouse cursor is moved over the level name field above the board. 
  Thanks to Matthias Meger for valuable feedback on this new feature, 
  as well as the next on the list, and thanks to Findus for help in 
  finding the motivation to implement these features.
. New feature: "Optimize an area of the board". The optimizer tool now 
  supports specifying that only pushes in a selected area of the board 
  shall be optimized, as opposed to always optimizing pushes all over 
  the board. This feature comes in handy when working with levels and 
  solutions which are too large for the optimizer. Note that 
  currently, this feature only works with the two accompanying
  optimizers YASS and YASO because the optimizer plugin interface 
  doesn't have a standardized syntax for area selection. To select or 
  unselect an area, right-click the board and drag the mouse.
. In connection with the new "optimize a range of pushes" feature, a 
  minor supporting feature has been added: "Create level based on 
  selected range of pushes and copy it to the clipboard". It can be 
  found on the "Edit" menu and appears on the right-click popup 
  context menu as well. There is a new option in the "Settings" 
  window for it: "Control | Level format | Copy to clipboard | 
  Export level based on solution slice: Include titles", so level and
  solution names can be suppressed if the level is to be imported in 
  another Sokoban clone which only can read plain boards and solutions 
  without  texts. 
. Added a minor feature to the "Optimizer" tool: "Repeat alternating 
  optimizations only if moves, pushes or box lines improved". With 
  alternating optimizations enabled, the default behavior is like it 
  always have been, i.e., that an improvement of any of the six 
  metrics triggers a new round of optimizations. The new feature can 
  be found in the optimizer main menu. When "Repeat" is enabled, a 
  new menu item "Settings | Alternating optimizations... | Repetition 
  settings..." appears on the menu. Thanks to Findus for suggesting 
  this feature.
. In the accompanying YASO optimizer, the multithreaded vicinity 
  search method has been substituted by its predecessor, a single-
  threaded search. For small levels, the multithreaded version may be 
  faster, but for medium and large levels, the synchronization 
  overhead required by the multithreaded search far outweights the 
  benefits. Sometimes, the multithreaded version is more than 10 times
  slower when optimizing moves and pushes, and optimizing boxlines is 
  even worse. Here a factor 40 has been observed. The first phase of 
  the vicinity search, which generates the box configurations for the 
  search in the second phase, is still multithreaded because it 
  scales well with the number of processors. Thanks to Findus for 
  providing statistical material about the two different vicinity 
  search versions.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.593
. Changed the sound settings so only "Level solved" and "Illegal move" 
  sounds are enabled by default. It has always been questionable 
  whether a puzzle game like Sokoban should be accompanied by sound 
  effects, but at least it was tolerable in Sokoban YASC which by 
  default always has played them discreetly with only 25% of the 
  user's normal sound volume. However, it looks like this programmatic
  adjustment of the sound volume doesn't always work anymore, for 
  instance on computers which transfer sound and video through a 
  single HDMI cable to the monitor and the speakers. Here Sokoban YASC 
  cannot control the sound volume, and the sound effects are played 
  with the user's normal sound volume. In that case, the sound effects 
  are nothing but a nuisance, also because they are neither 
  technically nor artistically good enough for that.
. Decreased the loudness of some of the sound effects, so all sounds 
  have more similar levels.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.592
. Bugfix (1.591): In the accompanying YASO optimizer (and in the 
  single-threaded version of the optimizer in the combined YASS solver 
  and optimizer), the "Quick vicinity search" optimizations had
  stopped running as many times as intended. An example: With settings 
  20/10, the intention is to perform quick optimizations with 10/0, 
  20/0, and 999/0 until no more optimizations can be found, before the 
  more time-consuming full 20/10 search is launched. The optimizer 
  only performed the first and the last of the intended quick 
  optimizations, i.e., 10/0 and 999/0 in the example. This didn't 
  influence the quality of the optimization, it could just increase 
  the running time slightly.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.591
. In the accompanying YASO optimizer (and in the single-threaded 
  version of the optimizer in the combined YASS solver and optimizer),
  the first of the two phases in the "Vicinity search" method now runs 
  15-70% faster for some solutions. The first phase generates box 
  configurations which are small variations of the positions along the 
  solution path. This significant improvement is the result of 
  filtering out a large group of duplicate box configurations before 
  they are even generated, as opposed to the old method where these 
  duplicates first were filtered out when they were added to the 
  database. Thanks to Matthias Meger for figuring out the answer to
  the difficult question why the new filter in its first incarnation 
  didn't produce exactly the same box configurations as the old 
  method, and for showing how to reinstate that property.
. Added a new option to the settings for the level generator: "Discard 
  trivial opening pushes". Trivial opening pushes are forced pushes, 
  where there only is one legal push because the player has "carved" a 
  tunnel on the board, and a box is blocking the exit. Because of the 
  way a level generator works, it's inevitable that this form of
  "tunnel-digging" is very popular because it adds a few pushes to a 
  generated level, but trivial forced pushes never contribute to the 
  complexity of a level. The level generator has always been able to 
  discount trivial pushes at the end of the game. These so-called 
  "tail pushes" simply bring the boxes directly to their final goal 
  squares.
. In contrast to the YASGen stand-alone level generator, the version 
  with a proper graphical user interface built into Sokoban YASC 
  didn't really support "Discount trivial tail pushes" even though 
  there was an option for it on the generator "Settings" window. Now 
  the built-in version of the level generator also supports this 
  option.
. Bugfix (1.586): In the "Capture levels and skins" tool, the newly 
  added minor feature "automatically add a wall-filled border if the 
  level has open sides" sometimes added a border when it wasn't 
  necessary. Thanks to Anian Wu for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: In the level editor, clicking "Select all" had stopped 
  showing the correct "Select" mouse cursor on the screen. The 
  "Select" drawing tool worked correctly, but with the "Erase" mouse 
  cursor appearing as visual indicator of the currently selected 
  drawing tool.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.590
. In the accompanying YASS solver, the awkward pause in the so-called
  "perimeter search" between the backward search and the forward search 
  has been eliminated. The pause occurred when all the game positions 
  found during the backward search were stored on disk. Depending on 
  the number of game positions, this could take minutes with a 
  magnetic hard disk drive because the storing operation wasn't 
  implemented efficiently, writing only one game state at a time to the 
  disk. Now it's implemented with buffering, so only a few disk write 
  operations take place, and then the entire operation typically only 
  takes a few seconds. The pause was particularly awkward because for 
  many levels solvable by the perimeter search, the solution is found 
  soon after the forward search begins, making the pause feel even 
  more as a waste. Eliminating the pause has also made it possible to 
  remove the artificially reduced maximum number of backward search 
  game positions, which was mentioned in the version 1.589 release 
  notes.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.589
. Bugfix (1.588): The accompanying YASS solver had stopped working for 
  many levels which hadn't a goal-room theme. When the specialized 
  goal-room solver module doesn't find a solution, the solver switches 
  to a so-called "perimeter search", which consists of first a 
  backward search and then a forward search trying to find a meeting 
  point between the two frontiers. The deadlock detection in the 
  forward search hadn't been reset properly after the goal-room solver 
  module, causing most game positions falsely to be discarded as 
  deadlocked, so no solution was found unless the initial but weaker 
  backward search found a solution on its own.
. Bugfix (1.588): In the accompanying YASS solver, all game positions 
  found during the backward search leg of the so-called "perimeter 
  search" are stored on disk. That can take a long time, and to ensure 
  there still is room for a forward search within a user-specified
  time limit, the backward search only visits and saves a limited 
  number of game positions, no matter how much memory the solver has 
  been given. By mistake, the forward search in the latest version of
  the solver didn't use all the available memory either, because it by 
  mistake inherited the artificially reduced game positions capacity 
  from the backward search.

Version 1.588
. Small improvements of the accompanying YASS solver have increased
  its score from 75 to 79 solved of the 90 levels in the XSokoban
  level set, the quasi standard Sokoban solver test suite. (Current
  status: 84 solved.)

Version 1.587
. The new 400% zoom option in the "Capture levels and skins" tool 
  didn't take into account that with such a high magnification, it's 
  necessary to compensate for the pixel center position when the user 
  specifies where the board is located in the image. If the user 
  entered the correct pixel coordinates of the board, the grid 
  appearing on the screen with zoom 400% was 2 pixels off, depicting 
  the center of the unscaled pixel instead of its top-left corner. 
  That was confusing because it looked as if the grid position needed 
  adjustments. If the user did that, it probably wouldn't affect the 
  capture of the level from the image, but the skin capture would be 
  inaccurate, typically 1 pixel off, and in order to use the skin, the 
  user would have to back and adjust the coordinates once more to get 
  the correct selection.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.586
. Added a minor feature to the "Capture levels and skins" tool. 
  Previously, the zoom factor options were 100% and 200%. This has 
  been extended to 100%, 200%, and 400%. The reason this wasn't done 
  from the beginning is that the memory footprint can be huge, 
  growing exponentially with the size of the image. This is still a 
  concern, given that the user might have other memory consuming tasks 
  running in the background, e.g., solvers and optimizers. Now the 
  capture tool allows a 400% zoom for images up to 2600 x 1600 pixels
  (a somewhat arbitrary limit), and as an attempt to keep in bounds 
  the memory consumption, the zoom factor is always reset to 100% when
  the user exits the "Tools" window and returns to the main window. 
  Thanks to Anian Wu for bringing this up.
. Added a minor feature to the "Capture levels and skins" tool. If a 
  level isn't completely surrounded by walls and/or boxes at goal 
  squares, then the capture tool now automatically adds a wall-filled 
  border, not because it's necessary to play the level - Sokoban YASC 
  is deliberately very forgiving about the level format and only 
  requires that the level is playable - but because a wall border is
  required before Sokoban clones can read the level from the text 
  files, which normally are used for storing Sokoban levels. It's a 
  known phenomenon that users can play and save "no-border" levels in 
  Sokoban YASC, but that these levels cannot be imported again. This 
  is a feature and not a flaw because it gives the user as much
  flexibility as possible. Now the capture tool contributes by adding
  a border, if there isn't one already and if there is room for it. If 
  adding a border would exceed the maximum level size, the level can 
  still be saved to a file, or copied to the clipboard, but the user 
  won't any longer be allowed to play it in this application. Thanks 
  to Anian Wu for bringing this up.
. Added a minor feature to the "Capture levels and skins" tool. At the 
  point where the user enters information about the contents of each 
  square on the board, there is a new "Edit..." button which allows 
  the user to copy the already entered squares into the level editor, 
  leave the capture tool, and instead begin editing the board in the 
  level editor. This might be useful in the scenario, where the 
  captured level is incomplete or illegal, in which case the capture 
  tool won't allow the user to complete the level and advance to the
  "Save and play" step. Again, this new feature isn't strictly 
  necessary because if the level is illegal or incomplete, the user 
  will have to fake the missing information, and this can just as well 
  be done using the capture tool, with the advantage of having the
  original captured image to look at in the background, but sometimes, 
  it may be easier or more comfortable to finish the level by using 
  the level editor. Thanks to Anian Wu for bringing this up.
. Added a minor feature to the "Capture levels and skins" tool. The 
  user specifies where the board is located in the image by moving the 
  mouse and clicking at the sides of the board. Now the user can nudge 
  the lines marking the sides of the board into their proper positions
  by using the keyboard arrow keys. Typically, this is more convenient 
  and more intuitive than adjusting the selection later by using the 
  spin edit controls. Thanks to Anian Wu for this suggestion.
. Bugfix: The "Capture levels and skins" tool couldn't process 
  captures with almost microscopic boards. When the column width or 
  row height for the squares on the board was 4 pixels, or less, the 
  processing stopped with a "Division by zero" error message. Thanks 
  to Anian Wu for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: After creating a new level in the level editor, and then 
  immediately going to the optimizer tabsheet with no other 
  optimization tasks on the queue, the thumbnail image of the new 
  level didn't show up properly if the user changed the size of the 
  thumbnail image. Thanks to Anian Wu for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.585
. Bugfix: For some types of very large levels, the accompanying YASS 
  solver plugin became unresponsive when it precalculated a goal area 
  packing order. Selecting "Terminate" had no effect because the 
  calculation in progress took too long time to run to its completion. 
  The only way to stop it was to terminate the application, which still 
  was possible, despite the hung plugin. 

Version 1.584
. Minor changes.

Version 1.583
. Bugfix: For some types of very large levels, the accompanying YASS 
  and YASO solver and optimizer plugins became unresponsive when they 
  precalculated the deadlock situations. Selecting "Terminate" had no 
  effect because the calculation in progress took too long time to run 
  to its completion. The only way to stop it was to terminate the 
  application, but because of the hung plugin, the shutdown procedure 
  didn't work gracefully either, but ended with a Windows error 
  message about the application having stopped working.

Version 1.582
. Bugfix (1.567): With the introduction of the "Capture levels and 
  skins" tool, a bug slipped into the installation  procedure. During 
  the installation of a new version of the application on top of an 
  existing version, the installation procedure terminated abnormally 
  with an "Access violation" error message. The installation proper
  had run to its completion at that point, and the installed 
  application worked correctly, so it was merely a matter of the 
  installation procedure not shutting down in an orderly manner.

Version 1.581
. Added a new minor feature: The file conversion methods (found on the 
  menu in the "Open" window) has been extended with a "Normalize 
  board" conversion, and a variant which additionally makes the board 
  rectangular, with all outer cells filled up with walls. Previously, 
  these normalizations could only be made in the level editor, 
  applying them to the currently loaded level. It's practical also to
  be able to perform these normalizations for one or more level 
  collections as a single operation. Thanks to John Polhemus for this 
  suggestion.

Version 1.580
. Working with the solver and the optimizer, and in particular when 
  several levels and solutions are to be processed, it can be 
  practical to save the task list from one session to the next. To 
  that end, the solver and the optimizer now allow exporting and 
  importing the task list. This new feature can be found in the
  "File" menu. Please note that import/export introduces an unbounded
  time gap between creation and execution of a task. It's the user's 
  responsibility that the original level still exists at the time the
  task is executed. If not, the task will still run to its completion, 
  but the result won't be saved anywhere.
. Bugfix: The shutdown procedure had stopped working under some 
  circumstances. Sometimes, the application terminated abnormally if a
  solver or optimizer was running in the background at the time the 
  user closed the application. No harm was done because next time the 
  application was launched, the error recovery mechanism caught any 
  pending unsaved solutions produced by the solver and optimizer 
  plugins.

Version 1.579
. In reverse mode play, the player starting position is now discreetly 
  marked on the board. This helps when the boxes form different
  "pockets", where the reverse mode game first is solved when the 
  player ends in the correct zone. Thanks to Raymond Groenestein for 
  this idea.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.578
. Minor changes.

Version 1.577
. The function "Save level as a new file..." in the main game-playing 
  window provides more functionality than promised, and more than it's
  obligated to offer. When the user either deliberately or by 
  happenstance specifies the name of an existing file (different from 
  the original name), then "Save as..." asks the point-of-no-return 
  question "Do you want to overwrite the existing file?" This is normal
  behavior for this type of functionality, and the user has the 
  responsibility to make the decision, but users could be tempted to 
  ignore the question and rely on the observed behavior: If the 
  existing file was a Sokoban level file, the level was added to the 
  file instead of overwriting it. This could be seen as a feature, 
  whereas it in reality only is a safety net which seldom hurts. It 
  was added in version 1.559 in connection with the "Support for 
  running multiple instances of the application concurrently" feature,
  which introduced the necessary machinery. There was one scenario 
  where the safety net didn't kick in: If the most recently viewed 
  level file in the "Open" window was identical to the destination 
  file for the "Save as..." operation, then "Save as..." did 
  overwrite the existing file, as it says it will, instead of copying 
  the selected level to the existing file. Now the behavior has been 
  made consistent, so users in effect can use "Save as..." as "Copy 
  level to existing file", even though this functionality exceeds 
  what "Save as..." is obligated to do. Thanks to Paul Voyer for 
  reporting the problem with this feature.

Version 1.576
. Minor changes.

Version 1.575
. Bugfix: On rare occasions, the automatic deadlock detection falsely 
  reported a deadlock situation. Technically, the culprit was the 
  corral deadlock detection mechanism. It did find the correct answer,
  i.e., that the game position wasn't a deadlock, but even so, it 
  sometimes gave the wrong answer when a box outside the fenced-in 
  area escaped from the corral by passing through it. Thanks to Jordi 
  Domenech for reporting this bug.

Version 1.574
. Minor changes.

Version 1.573
. Added a new minor feature: "Suppress level titles and author names 
  when exporting levels to the clipboard". In the "Open" window, 
  exporting level sets to the clipboard has always included level 
  titles and author names. This is the appropriate choice, and any 
  decent Sokoban clone will bypass text lines with non-board 
  characters, so it should not be a problem when the exported level 
  set is meant to be imported in another Sokoban clone. However, 
  there are clones with a primitive import function which rejects 
  level sets with anything but raw board lines in the file. Thanks 
  to Paul Voyer for bringing this up.
. Added a new minor feature: In the optimizer window, a new menu item 
  has been added to the right-click popup menu for the solutions 
  table: "Reset optimization method to 'Settings' for the selected 
  solutions". Previously, if the task list contained many solutions 
  with specialized optimization methods like "box lines/moves" after 
  a batch run with alternating optimization methods, it could be 
  tedious to reset the methods manually if a new run with default 
  settings was to be conducted. Thanks to Findus for bringing this
  up.

Version 1.572
. Added a new minor feature: "Calculate pushes lower bound" which is 
  available via the keyboard shortcut "0" (the digit zero, not the 
  letter "O"). Normally, the calculation finds the result almost 
  instantly, but theoretically, the calculation time can explode for 
  large levels. To that end, there is a time limit for the calculation
  in 'Settings': "Control | Pathfinding | Maximum pushes lower bound 
  calculation time". The program code for the calculation has always 
  been present in the YASS solver, but it was never made available to 
  the end user until now.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.571
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner, including built-in solutions. 
  Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels bundled with 
  the application.
. Bugfix (1.570): The deadlock detection has always been very robust, 
  but ironically, adding even more safety code suddenly caused false
  "frozen box" deadlock warnings under some circumstances.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.570
. The application has always had the undocumented minor feature "Show
  board coordinates" which is reachable via the keyboard shortcut
  "Ctrl+Alt+F2". When enabled, it shows the board coordinates for the
  square currently pointed to by the mouse. This feature has now been 
  made official by listing it in the "Settings" window as "Control | 
  Path finding | Show board coordinates". Thanks to Findus for this 
  suggestion.
. Minor changes.


Version 1.569
. In the "Extract levels and skins from images" tool, the user 
  specifies where the board is located in the image by using a 
  combination of "point-and-click-on-the-image" operations with the
  mouse, and fine-tuning adjustments with the spin edit controls for
  board width, board height, column width, etc. When specifying the
  outline of the board it's often practical to have the choice between
  freezing either the number of columns and rows, or the size of the
  columns and rows. To that end, there is a "Lock" check box which, 
  when checked, freezes the size of the columns and rows. The lock 
  was, however, only applied to adjustments made with the spin edit 
  controls, and not when the user made more convenient
  "point-and-drag" operations with the mouse. Thanks to Raymond 
  Groenestein for reporting this omission.

Version 1.568
. Bugfix: There were some minor layout inaccuracies in the new level
  capture tool window when the Windows operating system used small
  fonts, i.e., the default 100% font size. Thanks to Raymond 
  Groenestein for reporting this.
. Bugfix: After seeding the level generator with a fixed template, and
  after starting the generator, the thumbnail view of the seed level 
  didn't always show up correctly on the screen. The board could be
  invisible if the template had connected goals, and backward search
  had been selected as generator method. It was only a cosmetic error,
  and no harm was done. The other level candidates showed up 
  correctly, and the generator gave all candidates a proper treatment.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.567
. Major update: A new "Extract levels and skins from images" tool has
  been added to the application. Thanks to Raymond Groenestein for 
  suggestions, inspiration, help with the English texts, and in 
  particular for the right and bright idea to base such an extraction
  tool on what essentially is a Sokoban level editor with the added
  twist that its background image is the image from which the user 
  wants to extract the level and/or the skin. Also thanks to all who
  have helped testing the new tool.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.566
. Minor changes.

Version 1.565
. Minor changes.

Version 1.564
. Bugfix: Sokoban YASC supports importing levels in run-length encoded
  format, but the import failed if the level had maximum width (50 
  columns).

Version 1.563
. Bugfix: In the "Load skin" window, Sokoban YASC has a tool for 
  editing textual information embedded in a skin image. Putting 
  settings and skin information directly in the image makes a skin 
  self-contained, so distributing a skin is as simple as it can be.
  This editor tool didn't take into account that Sokoban YASC at a
  time added support for loading skins in PNG image format, but 
  without also adding support for saving images in PNG format, a task
  which requires substantial additional machinery. The application
  silently changed the updated image to BMP format without changing
  the file name extention to ".bmp", and even though the image was
  intact and accessible from dedicated image editors and viewers, it
  couldn't be loaded by Sokoban YASC anymore because of the wrong file
  name extension. The new version sets the correct ".bmp" file name 
  extension and notifies the user about the format change.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.562
. Added tailor-made settings for some new "SokoSkinner" skins to 
  achieve the best graphical results.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.561
. Improved the import of skins in Sokoban++ format by changing which
  imagery is used when objects (players and boxes) move around on the
  board. Skins contain separate drawings for objects at 
  non-goal-squares and goal-squares. By default, both sets of drawings
  are put to use when objects are standing still and when they are
  moving. Some Sokoban++ skins are not designed with move animation in
  mind, and overall it produces a more stable move animation for the
  existing Sokoban++ skins when non-goal-square drawings are used as
  long as the object moves, no matter whether the object is located at
  a non-goal-square or a goal-square. Additionally, the Sokoban++ 
  import script has been enhanced with tailor-made settings for 
  several "SokoSkinner" skins to achieve the best graphical results. 

Version 1.560
. There is the oddity that the built-in default skins don't match the
  default values in the "Settings" window completely. When the user
  loads a default skin normally from the "Settings" window, then 
  everything works correctly. If the user instead attempts to load the
  standard skin by resetting the graphics settings in the "Settings"
  window by clicking the "Default settings" button, then the default
  "red boxes" skin shows up as expected, but its box highlight
  animation has minor deficiencies for some scale factors. This 
  discrepancy has been solved now by letting the application change
  the relevant settings from "default values" to "default skin
  values" when appropriate, so the user won't notice any difference
  between the two methods for loading the standard skin.  
. Fine-tuned the settings for the "yellow crates" built-in default
  skin. Previously, the crate highlight animation had minor 
  deficiencies for some scale factors.

Version 1.559
. Improved the support for running multiple instances of the 
  application concurrently. It has always been possible to run 
  multiple instances of the application concurrently, but it was 
  dangerous to do it. When a level file is opened, all its levels are
  loaded from the harddisk into the computer memory (RAM). Later, when
  the user leaves the level file (either by loading another file or by
  closing the application), the entire file is written back to the 
  harddisk if anything has changed in one of the levels. This meant 
  that if the user opened the same file in multiple instances and 
  updated it in any way, then the "last saving instance won the entire
  file", meaning that updates to the file from other instances were
  lost. Now the application checks for competing updates to a level
  file when it's written back to the harddisk. The synchronization
  avoids loosing snapshots, solutions, levels, and level changes; but
  it's important to keep in mind that the synchronization is not and
  cannot be perfect. Two major limitations are: 1) Textual information
  like level notes are "atomic", so one of the saving instances still
  "wins". 2) Level matching is only implemented as an exact match (as
  opposed to the sophisticated matching in the built-in duplicate 
  finder), so even the smallest trivial modification of a level leads
  to duplicate levels (but more importantly, their snapshots and 
  solutions survive and the solutions can be unified later by the
  duplicate finder, or manually by the user).
. The size of the "thumbnail" level preview in the "Tools" window can
  now be adjusted according to the user's preferences. Earlier, it was
  only possible to adjust the width because changing the height
  "steals" work space from the more important task lists, e.g., levels
  to solve, and solutions to optimize. The typical computer monitor
  panel size has grown since the application was designed, and
  nowadays there is normally ample room for both an above minimum
  height "thumbnail" preview, and a reasonable number of visible items
  on the task lists.
. Improved the default "red boxes" and "yellow boxes" skins by adding 
  Gerry Wiseman's animations of players and boxes. The animations have
  long been available in the external versions of these skins, which 
  also are bundled with the application, but now the built-in default
  skins benefit from them as well. The third default skin, "yellow 
  crates", has also been improved with a box animation, albeit a
  simple one.
. Improved the default "red boxes" and "yellow boxes" skins by using
  Gerry Wiseman's editions of the "Games 4 Brains" images of walls,
  players, and boxes. The edited images have long been available in
  the external versions of these skins, which also are bundled with
  the application, but now the built-in default skins benefit from 
  them as well.

Version 1.558
. Fixed a problem with the level generator when the user locked/
  unlocked the computer, e.g., by using a password-protected screen
  saver. The generator triggered an "Access denied" message, and the
  message window ended up behind the application window, so for the
  user it looked as if the application had stopped responding. The
  error message window would first become visible when the user 
  switched to another application running on the computer. The 
  generator continued normally after the user closed the error 
  message window, so no harm was done. The generator already had some
  machinery to suppress the error message, but it wasn't always 
  applied. Thanks to Anthony Brouse for reporting this problem.

Version 1.557
. Corrected a typo in the puzzle file format description. Thanks to
  "carlossokoban" for reporting it.

Version 1.556
. Major update: The accompanying solution optimizer has changed from a
  singlethreaded to a multithreaded program, so it now can use all 
  available processors on the computer for the "Vicinity search" 
  optimization method. That's the most powerful of the implemented 
  optimization methods, but it's also a very time-consuming task. 
  Therefore, it's a most welcome improvement that multithreading
  reduces the running time by 50% or more, when the computer has 2 or
  more processors. The new optimizer is an independent plugin, YASO
  (Yet Another Sokoban Optimizer) instead of being a part of the old
  YASS solver and optimizer plugin. That way, it has also been 
  possible to increase the limits in the optimizer to 1000 boxes and
  70x70 boards, whereas the YASS solver plugin limits are 255 boxes
  and 50x50 boards. Note that the old singlethreaded optimizer still
  is available as part of the YASS solver and optimizer plugin, so if
  you manually switch between different optimizers, you should 
  normally select the new YASO optimizer rather than the 
  singlethreaded version in YASS. Thanks to all who have helped
  testing the new optimizer, and thanks in particular to Findus for
  testing early unstable versions.
. The level file format has been streamlined by removing the macro
  feature and the puzzle type (game type), and the format description
  has been further polished. The macro feature allowed level notes
  and solution notes to share common texts, e.g., about copyright.
  These macros made it complicated for other programmers to write a
  conforming level reader. It was more work than it was worth having
  the macro feature. The existing macros have been fully expanded in
  the level files bundled with Sokoban YASC. Internally, macros are
  still supported by the application, so users will not note any
  difference. The puzzle type (game type) had only been half-heartedly
  specified and implemented, with a global puzzle type for the entire
  level file instead of allowing different sections of the file to
  hold different puzzle types. Also, the keyword "game" was
  ill-chosen; "puzzle type" would have been better. Thanks to Eric
  Sunshine for bringing these topics up, and for greatly improving the
  file format description.
. Until now, the level collection "dh5" has shipped with built-in 
  solutions made by the level designer, David Holland. They have now 
  been substituted with my own solutions, so Sokoban YASC again ships
  with my own built-in solutions for all levels bundled with the 
  application. Thanks to David Holland for lending me his solutions
  until my own solutions were ready.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.555
. Improved the status bar hint texts for the "Alternating 
  optimizations" feature, making it more clear that the objective for
  this feature is to optimize the X/Y metrics (e.g., "moves/pushes")
  for a solution, and that the feature isn't there for optimizing 
  both X/Y and Y/X in one go. The former only triggers alternating 
  optimizations after a successful first X/Y optimization, whereas the
  latter would imply always trying both a X/Y optimization and a Y/X
  optimization. Even though the latter also would be a meaningful 
  feature, it wouldn't blend well with the typical use of the 
  optimizer task queue, where the user often has both a "moves/pushes"
  and a "pushes/moves" solution, and it would be a waste if the
  "Alternating optimizations" feature gave both of them an "optimize 
  both X/Y and Y/X" treatment. Thanks to Findus for reporting that the
  hint texts needed improvements.

Version 1.554
. For a level "collection" with only a single level, the duplicate 
  finder only offered the option "Find levels similar to the current
  level", whereas the option "Find duplicates of current collection"
  was disabled. The former is an inexact search, allowing minor
  differences after level normalization. The latter searches for exact
  matches after level normalization has been applied. Sometimes this
  option comes in handy for single level "collections" too. Thanks to
  Findus for this suggestion.

Version 1.553
. Minor changes.

Version 1.552
. Bugfix: The built-in level generator can be seeded with a template
  level. If it was a fixed template with walls only (i.e., no boxes or
  goals), the generator didn't take the template into account. 
  Instead, the generator seeded itself with a fresh, randomly created
  level.
. Changed the name of two of the picture position options, "Picture"
  and "Frame", to the better terms "Fill" and "Stretch".


Version 1.551
. The "Copy level collection to clipboard" feature in the "Open level"
  window had never been updated so it used the late coming user-
  defined floor filling character in the settings. With floor-filling
  enabled, the floors were always filled with underscores, even if the
  user has specied a hyphen as floor-filling character. The omission
  only affected copying an entire level collection to the clipboard,
  as opposed to copying a single level.

Version 1.550
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner, including built-in solutions.
  Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels bundled with
  the application.
. Added "Copy clipboard item to Windows clipboard" and "Paste levels
  from Windows clipboard" to the context menu (i.e., the right-click
  menu) for the level editor's internal clipboard window. Thanks to
  Findus for this suggestion.
. Corrected a drawing error in the wall for the skins "Games 4 Brains
  Animated - Red" and "Games 4 Brains Animated - Yellow" by Gerry
  Wiseman, based on the original "Games 4 Brains" skin by Jan Reineke.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.549
. Added "Paste levels and solutions from clipboard" to the context
  menu (i.e., the right-click menu) for the solver window, the
  optimizer window, and the snapshots window. The function has always
  been available via menus and toolbar buttons, but it is sometimes
  convenient also to have access to the function from the context
  menu. Thanks to Sokobano for this suggestion.
. Bugfix: Scenario: Create a new level in the editor. Without leaving
  the "Tools" window (e.g., to play the level in the main window), use
  a solver plugin to solve it. Change from the solver tool to the
  optimizer tool and start optimizing the newly found solution. Still
  in the "Tools" window, save the new level to disk. Return to the
  main window. Both the solver-generated solution and the optimized
  solution, if any, were lost. The bug only affected unnamed levels
  which just had been created in the editor, and which hadn't been
  returned to the main game playing window before launching the
  optimization task.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.548
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the most
  important optimizer method "Vicinity search" wasted computation time
  by running one iteration too many. When a method has made all the
  improvements it can find, the method should not be activated again
  unless at least one other method finds further improvements, but
  "Vicinity search" got one more try, before it stopped. Thanks to
  Paul Voyer for reporting this bug.
  
Version 1.547
. Bugfix: In the duplicate finder window, the user can delete levels
  manually one by one, either via the menu or by using the keyboard
  shortcut Ctrl+X. On rare occasions, a deletion didn't take effect.
  The problem could occur when the deleted level was a member of a
  level collection where some levels had non-unique titles. (Note that
  duplicate levels and duplicate level titles are two unrelated
  issues.) Thanks to Findus for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.546
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.

Version 1.545
. In the main window, when the user clicks "Open" to select another
  level, the "Open File" dialog is shown. The file list has always
  correctly focused the user's currently opened file, but before the
  program did that, it loaded the first file on the list. Normally,
  this is fast enough to go unnoticed, but if the file contained a
  large level collection there could be a noticeable delay. This
  superfluous load has now been eliminated.
. Bugfix: Scenario: Using the level generator in the "Tools" window
  and simultaneously running other plugins like solvers and 
  optimizers. In that case, and especially on single-processor
  computers, there is sometimes a short delay when the user stops the
  level generator by clicking "Terminate" before the generator really
  stops. If the user in the meantime switched to another tool or
  another window, the generator terminated with an "access violation"
  error message. No harm was done, and the application continued
  normally after the user closed the message window.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.544
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner, including built-in solutions.
  Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels bundled with
  the application.

Version 1.543
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner, including built-in solutions.
  Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels bundled with
  the application.

Version 1.542
. Improved the newly added freeze check in reverse mode gameplay so it
  also checks neigboring boxes (recursively), and not just frozen
  boxes which are two squares apart horizontally or vertically. Here
  is a small example (courtesy of Matthias Meger) with a run-length
  encoded board and a 1-pull deadlocked reverse mode snapshot:
  8#|#-.4-#|#-@-*.$##|#-$5-#|#-#-3#-#|#7-#|9#
  []D
  (Use the mouse to select the board and the snapshot, and then press
  [Ctrl]+C or [Ctrl]+[Insert] to copy the text to the clipboard.)
. Bugfix (1.541): Scenario: Reverse mode gameplay, using the keyboard
  to make moves instead of the mouse, combining an arrow key with
  [Ctrl]  to avoid pulling a box that otherwise would be pulled along.
  If pulling the box would create an overflow/underflow deadlock,
  detaching the box with [Ctrl] didn't take effect, resulting in the
  message that the move was blocked because it would create a
  deadlock. The problem only affected keyboard moves, not mouse moves.
. Minor changes.
Version 1.541
. Added revised "Sasquatch" levels by David W. Skinner, including
  built-in solutions. Currently, there are built-in solutions for all
  levels bundled with the application.
. Beautified David Holland's "dh1" levels and "dh5 #2" so they don't
  have a jagged outline.
. Improved the deadlock detection in reverse mode gameplay with one
  more class of deadlocks: Pull frozen boxes which are two squares
  apart horizontally or vertically. Here is a small example with a
  run-length encoded board and a deadlocked reverse mode snapshot:
  7#|#5-#|#$$.$.#|#.-@$-#|#-$.-.#|#5-#|7#
  []luLurrddldLdrrruuuLddrL
  (Use the mouse to select the board and the snapshot, and then press
  [Ctrl]+C or [Ctrl]+[Insert] to copy the text to the clipboard.)
. Improved the deadlock detection in reverse mode gameplay with one
  more class of deadlocks: Overflow/underflow regions. An overflow
  occurs when a set of B boxes only can reach a set of T target
  positions and B > T. (In reverse mode gameplay, target positions are
  box starting positions.) An underflow occurs when a set of T target
  positions only can be reached by a set of B boxes and T > B. For
  efficiency, underflow detection is only implemented for T = 1, just
  as it is for forward mode gameplay. Here is a small example with a
  run-length encoded board and a deadlocked reverse mode snapshot:
  7#|#5-#|#$$.$.#|#.-@$-#|#-$.-.#|#5-#|7#
  []lR
  (Use the mouse to select the board and the snapshot, and then press
  [Ctrl]+C or [Ctrl]+[Insert] to copy the text to the clipboard.)
. Playing the game in full screen mode using a high-resolution screen,
  the history slider is so long that it sometimes is difficult to keep
  the mouse cursor inside the mouse sensitive area when the mouse is
  moved left and right. To improve the situation, the height of the
  mouse sentive area has increased by 16 pixels above the visual
  appearance of the sliders on the status bar, i.e., the history
  slider and the replay speed slider. The oversized mouse sensitive
  area only kicks in when the window size exceeds 1280 x 500 pixels.
  Thanks to David Holland for this suggestion.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.540
. Completed adding built-in solutions for David W. Skinner's new 
  levels. Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels 
  bundled with the application.
. Added new levels by Evgeny Grigoriev, including built-in solutions.

Version 1.539
. David W. Skinner had made a mistake in his new "Sasquatch X-50" 
  level. It has been corrected now.

Version 1.538
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.

Version 1.537
. Bugfix: When a level had been solved in reverse mode, and this was
  the first found solution for the level, then on rare occasions it 
  could happen that the application didn't automatically create the
  corresponding normal forward solution. In that case, the user had to
  save the reverse mode solution manually and then select the menu
  item "Create forward solution".

Version 1.536
. Minor changes.

Version 1.535
. "Sokoban for Windows" (SfW) by Bjoern Kaellmark is currently one of
  the best Sokoban clones, and it also offers a comprehensive
  collection of levels for download from its homepage. The level
  format is, however, slightly incompatible with the otherwise 
  versatile import format in Sokoban YASC. The SfW levels have titles
  after the board, tagged with a leading ";". The ";" tag is an old
  deprecated convention and Sokoban YASC has always handled it
  correctly, but Sokoban YASC expects titles before the board, and
  notes between the levels, possibly with a "Title:" key/value pair.
  The effect was that an SfW level got its title from the preceding
  level during import. Furthermore, copy-pasting an SfW collection
  into Sokoban YASC via the clipboard gave the new collection a
  generic file name like "Levels" because the SfW text file doesn't
  follow the convention to specify the collection name with a "Set:"
  key/value pair. Instead, the collection name appears as the first
  non-blank line in the SfW text file, also tagged with a leading
  ";". The level reader in Sokoban YASC has been tweaked to cope with
  both of these issues, but it's important to note that all this is
  merely a hack added for practical purposes, and that Sokoban YASC
  does not sanction the SfW level file format in any way.
. "Sokoban for Windows" (SfW) by Bjoern Kaellmark recently upgraded
  its skin format so it uses PNG images instead of BMP images,
  thereby breaking the Sokoban YASC skin import of SfW skins. After
  adding a PNG image loader to Sokoban YASC (see the next point on
  this "Release Notes" list), the skin import of SfW skins in Sokoban
  YASC is now working again.
. Added partial support for images in PNG format, supplementing the
  existing support for BMP images and JPG images. The limitation is
  that any transparency information in the PNG image (e.g., a
  so-called "alpha-channel") is dropped because Sokoban YASC is built
  to operate with 24 bits images only. Even so, supporting PNG images
  in this limited form is an important improvement due to the fact
  that PNG is the preferred format for web applications at this point
  of time. Sokoban YASC has been developed using the programming
  language "Delphi 4" which hasn't native support for PNG images. New
  versions of Delphi support PNG images, but it's not an option to
  build Sokoban YASC with new Delphi versions because they don't offer
  backward compatibility for old projects. New Delphi versions are,
  very naturally, built from the ground up using modern Unicode texts,
  whereas old projects like Sokoban YASC are from an era where texts
  still were represented using 8 bits character codes, and contrary to
  what one might think, it's neither a mechanical nor an easy
  transformation to change the text system in an old and huge project
  like Sokoban YASC. Doing it amounts to reprogramming most of the
  project from scratch. Writing a PNG image loader is such a huge
  undertaking that it's not practical to write one's own, so instead
  the solution has been to find a third party product. The
  "ImageFileLib" project by Michael Vinther contains a PNG image file
  loader coded in Delphi, and the code comes with a liberal
  GPL-compatible license, so after massaging the code a little, it now
  serves as a plugin for Sokoban YASC. The plugin is called "PNG.dll"
  and it's installed together with Sokoban YASC, so normally you will
  not notice that it's a separate module. You only need to take notice
  of that if you belong to the small group of users who manually move
  the application away from the default installation folder to a
  folder of your own choice. In that case, you must move "PNG.dll"
  along too.
. Bugfix: Importing a certain type of Sokoban++ skins didn't work, or
  had stopped working. The bug affected skins with all images for the
  skin gathered in a single image.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.534
. Added new levels by David Holland, including built-in solutions. 
  Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels bundled with
  the application.
. This version is the first one where the deadlock detection module
  also assists the user during reverse mode gameplay. The assistance
  in reverse mode is, however, limited to one class of deadlocks:
  "Pull corral deadlocks", where the player cannot escape a fenced-in
  area and eventually will paint herself or himself into a corner with
  some boxes located at non-goal squares.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.533
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner, including built-in solutions. 
  Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels bundled with
  the application.
. Improved the status bar hint texts for the duplicate finder tools
  "Update solutions for duplicate levels" and "Create new collection
  from solved levels..." so they document a subtle limitation related
  to "similar levels" versus "duplicate levels". The limitation has
  rarely any practical importance, and it only applies to the search
  for levels similar to the currently selected level. In particular,
  it doesn't affect the duplicate finder when it searches for all
  duplicate levels.

Version 1.532
. Minor changes.

Version 1.531
. Bugfix: Duplicate finder scenario: After searching for levels
  similar to the currently selected level, the user has the option to
  distribute solutions to all identical levels. If the search had been
  performed with a match threshold less than 100%, and if one of the
  found levels wasn't a compatible duplicate, but only a similar level
  with a solution, then the distribution failed with an "Internal
  error" message. Thanks to Matthias Meger for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: Sokoban YASC has a 100,000 moves limit for solutions and
  snapshots. Levels imported from different programs may have longer
  solutions and snapshots, and Sokoban YASC handles them gracefully by
  treating them as part of the level notes. That way, the oversized
  snapshots and solutions aren't lost when the level file is imported
  and updated by Sokoban YASC. However, during the attempt to import
  an oversized solution or snapshot, a bug (an index out of range)
  sometimes triggered an access violation error message on the screen.
  The bug was harmless and didn't affect the treatment of the level. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.530
. Minor changes.

Version 1.529
. Delphi 6 compatibility: Sokoban YASC has been developed and
  maintained using the Delphi 4 compiler. It turns out that newer
  versions like Delphi 6 treat menu items differently in that they
  automatically adjust and add accelerator keys (underscore markers)
  when new menu items are added dynamically during a session. This
  affected the level duplicate finder, where the user's selected
  folders are stored as menu items. By adding underscore markers for
  the accelerator keys, Delphi 6 in effect changed the folder names to
  nonexisting folders so the duplicate finder didn't process the
  selected folders. This didn't affect the official release of
  Sokoban YASC produced with Delphi 4, so it was only a matter of
  compatibility with newer compiler versions. Thanks to Findus for
  reporting this issue.

Version 1.528
. Bugfix: Using the keyboard shortcut "Ctrl+Alt+B" to copy the
  normalized board to the clipboard correctly normalized the level,
  also with respect to rotate/mirror transformations, but before the
  board was sent to the clipboard, the board was subject to a
  superfluous "rotate 90 degrees, flip horizontally" transformation.
  The output was consistent so no harm was done, i.e., duplicates
  always produced the same normalized board, but for correctness the
  superfluous transformation should not be there.

Version 1.527
. Bugfix: Scenario: From the main window, go to the "Open level"
  window. Copy the currently selected level to the clipboard. Return
  to the main window. Copy the normalized board to the clipboard using
  the keyboard shortcut "Ctrl+Alt+B". Depending on the rotations and
  the mirroring of the normalized board, and if the level had
  solutions or snaphots, this scenario sometimes triggered an error
  message about an "Access violation". No harm was done, and the
  application continued normally after closing the message window.
  Thanks to Findus for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.526
. Minor changes.

Version 1.525
. Dropped the reference to "the clipboard" from the description of the
  recently added key/value pair "Collection: Name" in the "File Notes"
  section of the file format description. This makes the description
  of the copy/paste operation more universal, given that not all
  operating systems use a clipboard component (or metaphor) for
  copy/paste. Furthermore, even with operating systems having a
  clipboard, some users know how to perform copy/paste without ever
  having heard about the clipboard. Thanks to "sokoban_jay" for these
  two observations.

Version 1.524
. Bugfix: The skin import had stopped working correctly for a small
  group of skins in the format used by the "Sokofan" program. The
  affected group was Sokofan skins with directional pusher images,
  and with the pusher drawn on a uniformly colored background (as
  opposed to being drawn on top of the floor image and the goal
  image).

Version 1.523
. Added new levels by Rick Sladkey, including built-in solutions. 
  Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels bundled with
  the application.
. Added the key/value pair "Collection: Name" to the "File Notes"
  section of the file format description. The pair is optional but
  recommended. It assigns a name to the puzzle collection when the
  clipboard is used for copying an entire collection from a website or
  email and pasting it into a Sokoban program. Sokoban YASC has always
  supported the key/value pair "Set: Name" for that purpose, but it
  was never documented anywhere, and the word "Collection" is better
  than the more generic "Set". Thanks to Eric Sunshine for writing the
  English text for the file format description of this option.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.522
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner, including built-in solutions. 
  Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels bundled with
  the application.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.521
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner, including built-in solutions.
  Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels bundled with
  the application.

Version 1.520
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner, including built-in solutions.
  Currently, there are built-in solutions for all levels bundled with
  the application.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.519
. Minor changes.

Version 1.518
. Minor changes.

Version 1.517
. In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the solver deadlock
  detection calculation is now slightly more accurate when it finds
  "underflow" deadlocks related to boxes freezing at goal squares.
  The change is too small to improve the solver results, so the
  modication is more a question about making the algorithm better.
  Thanks to Matthias Meger for this suggestion.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.516
. Bugfix: The duplicate finder didn't always search though all the
  folders it was supposed to. The flaw only affected the functions
  "Find levels similar to current level" and "Find duplicates of
  current collection" and not the "Find all duplicate levels"
  function. If the selected level or collection was located in a
  subfolder of one of the folders selected for investigation, then
  other files in the same folder (and its subfolders) were not
  investigated. Thanks to Findus for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: The duplicate finder tools, e.g., "Synchronize solutions for
  all duplicates", could on rare occasions stop with the message
  "Internal error". The flaw was in the built-in control mechanism
  which triggered the message, and not the tools themselves. Thanks to
  Matthias Meger for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.515
. Windows 7 compatibility: In the accompanying YASS solver and 
  optimizer, the last time the settings were updated is now stored
  using a universal date/time textual format instead of the local
  format. For some unknown reason, Windows 7 seems not to recognize
  the local format correctly in some (but not all) countries when the
  application later reads the date/time back. The symptom was that
  the optimizer method settings were reset to default values on each
  invocation of the optimizer, instead of waiting 24 hours before the
  users settings expired. The 24 hours expiration time mechanism based
  on storing the last date/time using the local format has always
  worked with earlier versions of Windows, so this seems to be a
  Windows 7 compatibility issue. Thanks to Ivan Ivanov for reporting
  this problem.

Version 1.514
. Found a partial workaround for the sometimes unwanted effect that
  Windows always closes a menu after the user has select an item on
  the menu. The "solution" is to simulate keyboard events which
  re-open the menu. This cannot be fully guaranteed to work, and the
  screen updating also looks ugly, but in practice this is good
  enough when menus are used as a cheap method for offerering
  "radio button" multiple choices for infrequently used settings and
  functions, where it would be too much work to implement full-blown
  dialog windows with the choices. An example is the recently added
  "Replace" function in the level editor, where the user needs to
  choose "Find..." and "Replace with..." objects, e.g., boxes and
  goals. In this case, the workaround has been applied successfully
  to the main menu. Applying it to the popup menu failed, because the
  first time (and only the first time) the program attempts to put the
  popup menu back on the screen, the popup menu doesn't respond to the
  keyboard event which opens the sub-menu with the "Find..." and
  "Replace..." options. As yet another workaround, the application
  switches from the popup menu to the main menu, when the user changes
  the options found on the popup menu.

Version 1.513
. Added a new function to the level editor: "Fill selected area with a
  wall border, leaving the interior unchanged". This complements the
  already existing feature "Fill selected area with a wall border,
  filling the interior with floors". Thanks to Ming for this
  suggestion.
. Added a new function to the level editor: "Replace", e.g., change
  boxes to goals. Thanks to Ming for this suggestion.
. In the accompanying YASS optimizer, there is a new undocumented
  backdoor to preserve the user's optimizer method settings, which
  otherwise expire after 24 hours. These settings are so critical for
  the optimization efficiency, that the normal user cannot be trusted
  to keep them updated. The ideal settings can vary wildly from one
  level to another, so even when the user succeeds in fine-tuning the
  settings for one level, it's very unlikely that these settings are
  as good as the default settings for the next level. So to protect
  the casual user from running with poor settings, the optimizer
  resets them to default values 24 hours after they last have been
  used. The settings are so important that it even is out of the
  question to give the user a "Keep settings?" option, but for the
  expert users, who know exactly what they deal with when they 
  fine-tune the optimizer method settings, it is nevertheless
  practical to have such an option. This is now possible by editing
  the configuration file for the YASS solver and optimizer plugin.
  It's the text file "YASS.ini" which can be found in the folder
  "...\Documents\Sokoban\Sokoban YASC\Plugins". In the section
  "[Optimizer]", add the line "Optimizer method settings expire after
  24 hours=No" to disable the reset. Thanks to Sokobano for bringing 
  this up.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.512
. Added new levels by Aymeric du Peloux ("Cosmopoly 21" and
  "Cosmopoly 22"), including built-in solutions.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.511
. Added new levels by Aymeric du Peloux (13 "MyrioCosmos" levels), 
  including built-in solutions.
. Bugfix: The level editor was not geared to handle the situation with
  multiple running instances of the application. All instances used
  the same file on disk to store the editor history, in effect
  destroying the history and causing several error messages to appear
  during the editing process. The editing itself worked correctly
  though. Now each instance uses its own history during the session.
  There is, however, the question about which of these editor
  histories to save from one session to the next. For simplicity,
  it's undefined which one survives, so with multiple running
  instances, users should not rely on editor history persistence.
. Bugfix: The bug in the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, which
  was reported fixed in version 1.509 was still there, only in a
  weaker form. As mentioned in the release notes for version 1.509,
  the bug could theoretically affect the push-optimal guarantee when
  the solver searched for push-optimal solutions, but the chances of
  this happening was infinitesimally small.

Version 1.510
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner, including built-in solutions.
  Furthermore, David W. Skinner has streamlined the naming convention
  for his levels by officially renaming the level collections
  "Mas Sasquatch" and "Mas Microban" to "Sasquatch II" and
  "Microban II" respectively.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.509
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, there was a
  small bug in one of the deadlock detection patterns dealing with
  boxes freezing at goal squares. In practice, the bug didn't affect
  the solver's capabilities, but in theory the bug could affect the
  push-optimality guarantee when the solver found push optimal
  solutions. However, this is mostly a theoretical concern, since the
  chance of this happening was infinitesimally small.

Version 1.508
. Minor changes.

Version 1.507
. Bugfix: On rare occasions, the "Normalize board" feature in the
  level editor produced incorrect results. The user could always
  select "undo", so no harm was done, except that level normalization
  wasn't available for this level. Level normalization plays an
  important role for the duplicate finder tool, but the bug only
  affected the editor. Thanks to Eric Sunshine for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.506
. Added a new "Games 4 Brains Animated - Yellow" skin. The former
  "Games 4 Brains Animated" skin has been slightly modified and
  renamed to "Games 4 Brains Animated - Red". Thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. Added 2 new keyboard shortcuts to the main window: Ctrl+Alt+B:
  "Copy normalized level to clipboard". Shift+Ctrl+Alt+B: "Copy
  normalized level to clipboard (run-length encoded)". Exporting the
  normalized board may be useful for some types of external database
  lookups. There is, however, no standard for level normalization so
  the outcome is highly dependent on the implementation. In Sokoban
  YASC, level normalization is a quite sophisticated calculation,
  accounting for dead squares and boxes, player starting position,
  forced initial pushes, rotations, etc. Thanks to Findus for
  suggesting the keyboard shortcuts.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.505
. Increased the "Background color tolerance" settings for the new
  "Game 4 Brains Animated" skin from the default value 5% to 7%.
  Previously, a certain combination of window size and level size 
  produced scaling artifacts (looking like "horns") for the boxes.

Version 1.504
. Added a new version of the "Games 4 Brains" skin with animations.
  The new version goes by the name "Games 4 Brains Animated" and can
  be found in the "Common skins" folder. Thanks to "Games 4 Brains"
  (website: http://www.games4brains.de) for permission to use their
  excellent graphics in Sokoban YASC, and thanks to Gerry Wiseman for
  a gentle clean up of the original material, and for creating the
  beautiful animations in this version.
. The default "Games for Brains" skin has always had to get by with
  low-quality image scaling because the high-quality image scaling had
  problems with scaling images drawn with a uniformly colored
  background. Often, the background pixels smeared the border pixels
  of the object, in effect adding an outline around the object. Recent
  improvements of the high-quality image scaling method has reduced
  the problem, so the default skin now can use high-quality scaling
  for the player and for the boxes, where it makes a significant
  difference. The goals happen to look better with low-quality scaling
  because it gives the goals a smooth gradient-fill effect, and the
  walls don't really benefit from high-quality scaling. You need to
  load the default skin anew for this change to take effect.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.503
. Bugfix (1.480): With multiple views of a level on the screen, and a
  game state where the screen showed legal moves or pushes, resizing
  the window caused the legal moves to appear in all views instead of
  just the currently selected one.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.502
. Bugfix: The skin module has always had some limitations regarding
  skins with these two properties: 1) Fully transparent floors, and 2)
  high-quality scaling of the objects (player, boxes, etc.). The
  problem is that scaling adds an outline around the objects. (The
  default skin has transparent floors, and it only uses low-quality
  scaling for this very reason, with the result that the objects are
  slightly blurred.) Some time ago, an attempt was made to get rid of
  this limitation, but it wasn't fully operational. The outline
  removal worked reasonably well, but a bug caused other graphical
  errors after changing the window size and after changing from one
  level to another. Thanks to Gerry Wiseman for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.501
. Small improvements of the accompanying YASS solver have increased
  its score from 73 to 75 solved of the 90 levels in the XSokoban
  level set, the quasi standard Sokoban solver test suite. (Current 
  status: 84 solved.) 
. The level collection "Martel and Meger" has changed name to
  "Crazy Monk". The authors prefer this catchy pseudonym, and it's
  also under this pseudonym that the levels appear elsewhere.
. In the accompanying YASS optimizer, there has been a subtle change
  in the vicinity search module, so it sometimes samples the search
  space a little better. The vicinity search is guided by the
  user-defined limit on the number of tested neighbor squares around
  each square, e.g., 20 neighbor squares. Essentially, neighbor
  squares are found by "drawing" concentric circles around the center
  square, and unless the limit happens to complete the outmost circle,
  the square selection depends on the order in which the squares are
  visited, e.g., in clockwise or counter-clockwise order. The outmost
  circle is completed if the limit is of the form "1+(2*n*(n+1))"
  where "n" is a natural number including 0, i,.e. (0,1,2,3...). For
  other limits, a few squares will be selected differently depending
  on the visit order. Examples: With limit 10, a clockwise visit order
  picks 3 different squares than a counter-clockwise visit order.
  With limit 20, the difference is 1 square only. With limit 100, the
  difference is 13 squares. This new version of the optimizer varies
  the visit order for each search, thereby sampling the search space a
  little better. The visit order varies according to a fixed scheme so
  the optimizer still produces reproducible results. Thanks to 
  Matthias Meger for suggesting to vary the visit order.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.500
. Completed adding built-in solutions for the "Holland" level
  collection by David Holland. This means there are built-in solutions
  for all levels bundled with the application at the moment.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.499
. Completed adding built-in solutions for the "GRIGoRusha" level
  collection by Evgeny Grigoriev.
. Bugfix (1.480): With multiple views on the screen, each view has the
  menu option "Combine with matching opposite game mode snapshots
  (i.e., reverse/forward snaphots) to form solutions", which can be
  activated when such a snapshot exists. This worked correctly if the
  matching snapshot was loaded as another view, but it failed and
  triggered an error message if the snapshot instead resided on the
  'Snapshots' window.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.498
. Bugfix: There was a problem with the 'Settings' windows for solver
  and optimizer plugins on computers with multi-core processors. If
  the user opened one of the plugin 'Settings' windows while a plugin
  was running, then the application sometimes terminated abnormally
  with an "access violation" error. Thanks to Matthias Meger for
  reporting this problem.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.497
. Completed adding built-in solutions for David W. Skinner's
  "Sasquatch VIII" levels and "Sasquatch IX" levels. This means there
  are built-in solutions for all levels by David W. Skinner currently
  bundled with Sokoban YASC.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.496
. Added a new menu option to the tools palette for the duplicate
  finder: "Create new collection from solved levels". Thanks to
  Findus for this suggestion.
. In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, there was a logical
  flaw in one of the deadlock detection patterns dealing with gate
  squares. If the pusher happened to be located at the gate square in
  the starting position, the bug could on rare occasions make the
  solver report that a valid level was unsolvable. Thanks to Findus
  for extensive testing of the correctness of the deadlock detection
  module.
. Bugfix (1.494): Fixed a bug in the new "Forklift driving style"
  feature which which in replay mode (as opposed to game play mode)
  caused the vehicle to make a U-turn instead of driving in reverse
  when the vehicle moved from a goal square to a non-goal floor 
  square. Thanks to Jean-Pierre Martel for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.495
. In contrast to the main window and the "Open" window, there was a
  tiny constraint on the clipboard import feature in the "Tools"
  window. The constraint didn't affect functionality, but only the
  ease of use. If the currently loaded level was new or modified, and
  the user had placed a solution on the clipboard and selected "paste
  from clipboard" in the "Tools" window, then the solution wasn't
  imported straight away as it would have been if the "paste"
  operation had been activated in the other windows. Instead, the
  application responded with a message like "This level is new. Do you
  want to save it?" In other words, the user should decide what to do
  about the new or modified level before new data could be imported
  from the clipboard, even though this decision isn't really necessary
  at this point - even for a new or modified level - when the
  clipboard only contains solutions and snapshots (in contrast to new
  levels). Thanks to Carlos Montiers for mentioning this matter.

Version 1.494
. Added a new "Fixed template" option to the level generator settings.
  Internally, the level generator has always supported seeding the
  generator with a fixed template, i.e., a level candidate with
  immutable objects like goals and walls. However, the user interface
  was not in place, so there was no way to take advantage of this
  feature. When "Fixed template" is enabled, and the level generator
  is seeded with a single level (e.g., via the editor), then this
  level is treated as a fixed template with immutable walls and goals
  or boxes (depending on the search direction).
. When the optimizer window is opened, all solutions for the currently
  loaded level are always put on the task list, but only the best
  solutions (for moves and pushes) are automatically selected for
  optimization. If the level has both a best-moves solution and a
  best-pushes solution, they get 'moves/pushes' and 'pushes/moves'
  respectively as default optimization. Until now, all other solutions
  were put on the list with 'Settings' as default optimization,
  meaning the optimization method should be taken from the optimizer
  plugin settings. When the level has both a best-moves solution and a
  best-pushes solution, it's often more convenient that the secondary
  solutions also default to 'moves/pushes' and 'pushes/moves'
  optimization if they have the same number of moves or pushes as the
  best solutions. Thanks to Jean-Pierre Martel for this suggestion.
. Added a new option to 'Settings': "Control | Move animation |
  Forklift driving". Some skins, e.g., "Nightshift3", model a real
  warehouse with boxes and a forklift truck. With a real forklift,
  it's often preferable to drive a short distance in reverse instead
  of making a U-turn, hence this new option can enhance the move
  animation "realism". Thanks to Jean-Pierre Martel for this
  suggestion.
. Updated the "Nightshift3" skin so its move animation uses the new
  "forklift driving" style.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.493
. Minor changes.

Version 1.492
. The level normalization service function is used both by the editor
  (where is can be activated via the menu) and by the duplicate finder
  before it compares the levels. It's strange, but despite the fact
  that the level normalization is quite sophisticated, it had never
  been equipped with the ability to turn all frozen (immovable) boxes
  into walls, e.g., when two boxes are placed next to each other up
  against a wall. Previously, the level normalization only turned
  cornered immovable boxes into walls. Note, however, that the
  duplicate finder - in contrast to the level editor - only is allowed
  to turn immovable boxes on goal squares into walls. If an immovable
  box on a non-goal square is changed to a wall, then it creates a
  mismatch between the number of boxes and the number of goals. That
  would change the level status from "unsolvable" to "invalid", and
  the level would be dropped. Thanks to Findus for suggesting to
  extend the check to all frozen boxes. 
. After a batch run with the solver, there was no way to differentiate
  between the (rare) unsolvable levels and the normal failures, where
  the solver plugin just cannot solve the levels. Now unsolvable and
  invalid levels (according to the plugin) are marked as such on the
  task list after processing. Thanks to Findus for mentioning this
  issue.
. Even though it's considered a malfeature in a modern Sokoban game, 
  the application now has an "auto advance to next level when a level
  has been solved" option. It can be found in the 'Settings' window in
  the "Control | Miscellaneous" section.
. Sokoban YASC imposes a 100,000 moves limit on each snapshot and
  solution. It can happen that a level file contains a longer valid
  snapshot or solution created by a different application, and in that
  case Sokoban YASC silently truncated it to a 100,000 moves snapshot.
  This could cause the loss of a solution. There is no way that
  Sokoban YASC can handle longer snapshots and solutions, but to avoid
  loosing them, the application now treats longer snapshots and
  solutions as a part of the level notes. That way, long snapshots and
  solutions are correctly carried around as part of the level, but
  they are, of course, not processed by - or visible to - Sokoban YASC
  as anything but unstructured text. Thanks to Findus for suggesting
  to do something about this truncation issue.
. Bugfix: Level names for levels inside a level collection only need
  to live up to the naming restrictions imposed by the application.
  Selecting "Save as..." in the main window to save the level as a
  new indvidiual file means that the level name must live up to the
  more strict limitations imposed by the Windows operating system.
  There are a few levels in circulation with control characters in the
  name (i.e., characters with ascii values below the space character
  like TAB), and it that case selecting "Save as..." didn't open the
  "Save..." dialog window because Windows refuses to do so with an
  illegal filename. Now the application substitutes control characters
  in level names and snapshot names by underscores at level load time,
  so this problem never happens. Thanks to Findus for reporting this
  bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.491
. Bugfix: There was a bug in the recently added "closed diagonal"
  deadlock detection algorithm which on rare occasions caused the
  application to show an "access violation" error message when the
  user tried to push a box in a game. Thanks to Eric Sunshine for
  reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.490
. Bugfix: There was a minor bug in the level generator which mostly
  affected the screen display and not the level generation itself.
  Scenario: In the editor, send the level as a seed to the level
  generator. In the generator, set a check mark next to the seed
  level. Start the generator. Now the check mark for the seed level
  was removed as it should be, but the "selected" count on the
  screen and the checkbox for "select/unselect all candidates" were
  not updated accordingly.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.489
. Completed adding built-in solutions for David W. Skinner's
  "Sasquatch VII" levels.
. Bugfix: A serious bug could on rare occasions cause loss of
  solutions in level files. That's about as serious as a bug can get,
  but fortunately it only happened after a sequence of steps rarely
  seen in normal game play: In the main window, open a level with a
  best solution from before the current naming scheme was introduced
  (probably in version 1.323), with "Best Solution", "Solution/Moves",
  etc. The name is automatically updated in the 'Snapshots' window, so
  the old name won't be visible here. The only place it can be seen is
  in the raw level file. Make the exact same moves as in the best
  solution. Activate the 'Open' window. Leave the 'Open' window again
  by selecting 'Cancel'. Back in the main window, close the
  application or load another level. The next time the level was
  loaded, it became clear that the best solution had vanished. Thanks
  to Daniel Cielak for reporting this bug.
. The newly added "closed diagonal" deadlock pattern detection didn't
  block pushes leading to a deadlock if the player started from the
  square inside the diagonal, i.e., the square which after the push
  would be surrounded by boxes and walls. This omission was harmless,
  of course, since it didn't block any legal pushes, but the more
  accurate deadlock detection, the better. 
. Heavily downscaling a skin (e.g., for a thumbnail preview, or to
  make a large level fit in a small window) often had the effect that
  the skin became darker or brighter, seemingly at random. Reading
  "Physically Based Rendering" by Matt Pharr and Greg Humphreys has
  led to a better understanding of the image scaling algorithm, making
  it possible to avoid this unwanted effect. The problem was that the
  "Lanczos 3" filter weights don't sum to 1.0 for the neighbor pixels
  contributing to each pixel in the scaled image. Normalizing the
  weights so they sum to 1.0 avoids changing brightness. This
  improvement is particularly welcome now in connection with the
  recently added "multiple views" feature.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.488
. Minor changes.

Version 1.487
. The "closed diagonal" deadlock pattern has been extended to handle
  walls as well as boxes. Thanks to Matthias Meger for a lot of help
  with testing and constructing the "closed diagonal" deadlock
  detection algorithm.
. Bugfix: Scenario: A large level has been loaded in the main
  game-playing window. The precalculation of deadlock sets is running
  in the background and hasn't completed yet. The user changes to
  another level. It can take some time before the precalculation
  running in the background finishes processing the previously loaded
  level, and before that happens, the user terminates the calculation
  manually by clicking the discrete "..." button on the status bar. If
  the user had enabled the option "Control | Deadlock detection | Show
  simple dead squares" in the 'Settings' window, then the manual
  termination in this scenario had the effect that the currently
  loaded level was updated with dead squares found by the background
  calculation for the previously loaded level. This affected both the
  screen presentation and the game play (i.e., by falsely blocking
  some perfectly legal pushes) until the level was loaded again.
  Thanks to Matthias Meger for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.486
. As mentioned in the release notes for version 1.472, Microsoft has
  made it impossible to prevent the screen saver from running, except
  from faking keyboard events. This is what Sokoban YASC does every
  50 seconds, based on that the minimum screen saver idle time
  threshold is 1 minute. A small refinement has been added. Now the
  faked keyboard events are only issued if Sokoban YASC is the
  application which currently has the focus. The downside is that
  disabling the screen saver in Sokoban YASC only works as long as
  Sokoban YASC is the focused application, and furthermore, it's not
  perfect because it doesn't cover the settings screens for solver
  plugins and optimizer plugins. Even so, it seems the best choice
  because it avoids potential conflicts with other applications.
  Thanks to Eric Sunshine for this suggestion.
. Completed adding built-in solutions for David W. Skinner's
  "Sasquatch VI" levels.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.485
. Bugfix (1.483): There was yet another logical flaw in the
  implementation of the new "closed diagonal" deadlock pattern. The
  release notes for version 1.483 stated: "Unless all the boxes around
  the diagonal are located at goal squares, at least one of the boxes
  must be pushed inwards, and if that cannot be done without forming
  an immovable 2x2 region where at least one box isn't located at a
  goal square, then the game position is a deadlock". It's correct
  that pushing a box inwards always creates a new smaller "closed
  diagonal". There are, however, some "closed diagonals" where pushing
  a box inwards creates a new smaller "closed diagonal" with all boxes
  at goal squares, which aren't deadlocked. Then the remaining boxes
  can move freely, without any "2x2 immovable region" constraints.
  Thanks to Matthias Meger for reporting this bug.

Version 1.484
. Bugfix (1.483): There was a logical flaw in the implementation of
  the new "closed diagonal" deadlock pattern. A matching box
  constellation was labelled as a deadlock even if all the boxes were
  located at goal squares.

Version 1.483
. Added a new "closed diagonal" deadlock pattern. An example: Imagine
  a diagonal going left and up, with empty floor squares surrounded by
  boxes. Each empty diagonal square has one box to the left and one
  box to the right. At the bottom, the diagonal is "closed" by 3 boxes
  forming an "L". At the top, the diagonal is "closed" by 3 boxes
  forming an "L" rotated 180 degrees. Unless all the boxes around the
  diagonal are located at goal squares, at least one of the boxes must
  be pushed inwards, and if that cannot be done without forming an
  immovable 2x2 region where at least one box isn't located at a goal
  square, then the game position is a deadlock. Earlier, this type of
  deadlock was only detected for short diagonals of length 1 or 2, but
  now the diagonal can be of any length. This deadlock type occurs
  mostly in large open levels with many boxes, where it's easy for a
  human player to overlook it until a much later stage in the game.
. Completed adding built-in solutions for David W. Skinner's
  "Sasquatch V" levels.
. Bugfix (1.469): In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, using
  the recently added optimization methods "Optimize box lines, moves"
  and "Optimize box lines, pushes" could sometimes make the optimizer
  methods "Permutations" and "Global Optimizations" enter an infinite
  loop (because one branch of the optimizer treated any moves/pushes
  improvement as an improvement even if the box lines count
  increased). The user could still terminate the optimizer manually,
  so no harm was done. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.482
. Using the newly added "multiple views" feature, it could be
  disturbing that the mouse cursor shortly changed to "hour glass"
  when the user switched from one view to another, especially if the
  mouse click which selected the new view also was the beginning of a
  "move box" operation, where the mouse cursor changes again to
  "drag item". Now the "hour glass" cursor doesn't appear anymore when
  the focus changes from one view to another, even though it strictly
  speaking is the correct thing to do because depending on the skin
  and the size of the selected view, it can take a few seconds to
  change focus.

Version 1.481
. Using the newly added "multiple views" feature, the currently
  selected view, i.e., the one where the user currently plays the
  game, only had a caption with moves and pushes, but no secondary
  metrics (e.g., box lines) even when the display of these secondary
  metrics is enabled in the settings. During game play, only moves and
  pushes appeared automatically on the screen, and the secondary
  metrics were only added if the user let the mouse hover over the
  caption. This was - and is - intentional and is motivated by the fact
  that it theoretically can take a long time to calculate the
  secondary metrics. In contrast to moves and pushes, it isn't always
  practical to update the secondary metrics incrementally during the
  game, and the calculation from scratch takes time proportional to
  the number of moves. However, the display mechanism now measures the
  calculation time, and as long as it doesn't take more than 3
  milliseconds, the secondary metrics appear automatically on the
  screen during game play. In practice this means that the secondary
  metrics are always available on the screen for all but the largest
  levels. 
. Bugfix (1.480): With multiple views on the screen, if the user
  resized the window (e.g., by clicking 'Maximize') while replaying a
  game in one of views, then a groundless error message appeared,
  saying that the system was out of memory. No harm was done, and the
  game continued normally after the user closed the message window.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.480
. Added a new major feature: Multiple views. Previously, if the user
  wanted to try out different paths in a puzzle, there was nothing
  else to do but to save/load snapshots to/from the 'Snapshots' window
  and then play one of the paths at a time in the main window. With
  the new multiple views feature, several paths can be played
  simultaneously. For instance, if the user tries to solve a puzzle by
  playing it both forwards and backwards, then both paths can now be
  played at the same time in the main window. The options for the new
  feature can be found in the 'Settings' window under "Graphics |
  Multiple views". There are 2 existing options which are important
  for the new feature as well. The option "Control | Snapshots |
  Include secondary metrics in titles" now also applies to the caption
  above each view. The option "Control | Miscellaneous | Restore last
  position when a level is reopened" now also controls whether the
  multiple views are restored or listed as snapshots in the
  'Snapshots' window. It's worth noticing that the application takes
  care of all snapshots visible on the screen, just as the snapshots
  stored in the 'Snapshots' window. This means the snapshots are
  stored on the disk when the level is closed unless the user
  explicitly deletes them.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.479
. The "JSoko" application by Matthias Meger has changed naming
  conventions in its skin format so it's more in tune with the
  Sokoban++ skin format. Thanks to Matthias Meger for reporting this.
  Sokoban YASC has been updated accordingly, so JSoko skins still are
  imported correctly.
. Completed adding built-in solutions for David W. Skinner's
  "Sasquatch IV" levels.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.478
. Bugfix (1.469): The was a logical flaw in the new logic added in
  version 1.469 in the service function responsible for calculating
  the boxes which can reach a given square on the board. Rectifying it
  brings things back to square one, where the calculation sometimes
  gives up if the level is too big or too complex for the calculation.
  The application has always imposed a time limit on the calculation
  for that reason, so no harm is done, i.e., the application never
  stops responding for more than a few seconds during the attempt to
  do the calculation, no matter how big the level is. For the vast
  majority of the levels, the calculation only takes a few
  milliseconds, in which case the results seem to appear on the screen
  instantly, so it's mostly from the a theoretical perspective that
  it would be desirable with a further reduction of the exponential
  growth in the calculation.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.477
. The level format has been relaxed so it allows spaces between moves,
  e.g., "uuu rr dd rdL". This extra bit of flexibility comes in handy
  sometimes, and it doesn't seem to cause any problems for the level
  format. Thanks to Matthias Meger for this suggestion.
. The files history and folders history in the 'Open' window have
  been split up in two sets, so there is one set for "Open levels" and
  another set for "Open anything but levels". Previously, it was
  sometimes mildly annoying that testing several foreign type skins in
  succession could push the level history off the list. Thanks to
  Matthias Meger for bringing this up.
. The readability has improved for the folders history and the files
  history in the 'Open' window. An example: Instead of showing a file
  name as raw text like
  "...\Documents\Sokoban\Sokoban YASC\Levels\MyLevelFile.sok", the
  item on the drop-down list now presents itself in two columns, where
  the first column contains the file name "MyLevelFile.sok" and the
  second column contains the folder name
  "...\Documents\Sokoban\Sokoban YASC\Levels\". Thanks to Matthias
  Meger for this suggestion.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.476
. Added support for the skin-format used by the program "JSoko" by
  Matthias Meger (2009 format).
. There are basically two types of skin formats: Image-based skins and
  text-based skins, where the text refers to images and other
  resources (e.g., sounds) found in other files. The primary skin type
  supported by Sokoban YASC is the "Common Skin Format" which is
  image-based, but the application also supports all major formats in
  use by other free Sokoban clones. Many of these formats are
  text-based (consisting of a so-called INI-file), and previously,
  Sokoban YASC simply showed the foreign script in the "Open skin"
  window when the skin was selected. Some of the text-formats operate
  with all images gathered in a single image. In that case, Sokoban
  YASC now displays this image, just as if it had been an image-based
  skin, the only difference being that for the text-based skin, both
  the image and its controlling script are displayed on the screen.
. Bugfix (1.469): In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, there
  was a bug in the newly added "Optimize by exploiting symmetry"
  module. Only symmetrical levels were affected. The bug could on rare
  occasions cause the entire optimization task to stop prematurely. It
  happened when more than one symmetry improvement could be found in a
  solution. The optimizer had been programmed so it should handle that
  situation, but it didn't work correctly. Thanks to Sokobano for
  reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the optimizer
  could stop working if it was allowed to run long enough to generate
  4.2 billion pushes. Internally, YASS operates with a limit on the
  number of pushes, and it was defined as a 32-bit unsigned integer,
  which has 4.2 billion as the highest value. This limit can be
  reached after some hours of computation, and from then on, no
  improvements were found, and the user had to stop the optimizer
  manually by clicking "Stop". Thanks to Ming for reporting this bug
  and for helping with the debugging. Likewise, thanks to Findus who
  reported this bug earlier, but back then, the attempt to track it
  down failed.

Version 1.475
. Bugfix (1.469): In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the
  newly added optimization methods "Optimize box lines, moves" and
  "Optimize box lines, pushes" could on rare occasions "forget" to
  analyze a few branches of the game tree, and consequently overlook
  opportunities for finding improvements in these branches.
  (Technically, the bug was an inaccurate stopping criteria for
  finding positions with 'n' box lines and advance to positions with
  'n+1' box lines.)
. Minor changes.

Version 1.474
. Bugfix (1.469): In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, there
  was a bug in the newly added "Optimize by exploiting symmetry"
  module. Only symmetrical levels were affected, but the bug often
  caused the entire optimization task to stop prematurely, reporting
  "No optimizations found". Thanks to Wolfgang Haas and Sokobano for
  reporting this bug.

Version 1.473
. Minor changes.

Version 1.472
. Changed the alternating optimizations feature so it only alternates
  between "moves/pushes" and "pushes/moves". Previously, it alternated
  between the metrics the user had specified for the task, with the
  advantage that it offered full flexibility for the alternation
  feature. In practice, however, this flexibility has no importance
  because "moves" and "pushes" are the only metrics of interest, so
  sacrificing the generality is not a great loss, and it elegantly
  solves a user-interface problem with the newly added feature:
  Injecting alternating box lines optimization tasks. With the old
  general scheme, there was no way to instruct the optimizer to start
  with such a box lines optimization, before the "moves/pushes"
  alternation sets in. It was always the other way around: First
  alternation of "primary/secondary" metrics (e.g., "moves/pushes"),
  and then alternating "box lines/x" tasks. This limitation was known
  from the start, but no satisfactory solution was found. With the new
  "moves/pushes alternation only" scheme, the user's original metrics
  for the task apply to the first optimization only. In particular,
  the user can now select a "box lines/x" optimization which should
  run before the "moves/pushes" alternation sets in. Thanks to
  Sokobano for suggesting to solve the user-interface problem this
  way.
. Windows Vista compatibility: Microsoft has changed the screen saver
  logic for password protected screen savers, so an application cannot
  prevent them from running. That is not what users and applications
  need, so this change of behavior is an awkward step backward, and it
  forces applications to try all sorts of tricks to circumvent this
  obstacle. Fortunately, Windows treats simulated keyboard events
  generated by the application exactly the same way as true keyboard
  events, so an application can prevent the screen saver from running
  by faking keyboard activity periodically. That is what Sokoban YASC
  does now every 50 seconds, based on that the minimum screen saver
  idle time threshold is 1 minute. Thanks to Ming for mentioning this
  issue.
. Internally (meaning it has no consequences for the user), a few
  things have been changed for compatibility with newer versions of
  the Delphi development tool (more specifically Delphi 6), so other
  developers also can work on the application, which has been
  developed and still is maintained using Delphi 4.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.471
. Completed adding built-in solutions for David W. Skinner's
  "Sasquatch III" levels.
. Bugfix: Alternating optimizations could sometimes take one turn too
  many, performing one optimization task twice. It happened if the
  last alternating task, which doesn't find any improvements, was
  optimizing box lines (attempting to escape a suboptimal local
  minimum) as opposed to an alternating task optimizing normal
  primary/secondary metrics.
. Bugfix (1.469): The option "Disable screen saver" had been disabled,
  i.e., it had no effect. There is an open issue regarding screen
  savers under Windows Vista and newer Windows versions, where
  Microsoft has changed the behavior for screen savers with password
  protection. Such a screen saver is launched, even when the
  application suppresses the launch command(!), which until now has
  been the correct method to prevent a screen saver from running.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.470
. Improved the structure of the settings for alternating
  optimizations. Thanks to Sokobano for suggestions.
. Bugfix: Deleting new solutions in the optimizer window (or more
  precisely deleting optimizer tasks, since newly found solutions are
  never destroyed in the optimizer window), and then re-running some
  optimizations which produced the same results looked confusing
  because the new duplicates weren't added to the list on the screen
  again. With alternating optimizations enabled, this also made the
  alternations stop prematurely.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.469
. Added "Optimize box lines, moves" and "Optimize box lines, pushes"
  as new optimization methods in the accompanying YASS solver and
  optimizer. A solution optimized on box lines may not be that
  interesting in itself, but box lines optimization is sometimes a
  useful method to escape from a suboptimal local minimum, before
  further attempts to optimize on moves or pushes. Thanks to
  Sokobano for reporting this, and for experimental results.
. Added a new optimization method in the accompanying YASS solver and
  optimizer: "Optimize by exploiting symmetry". In a symmetrical
  level, the solution path may contain one or more symmetrical
  positions. When that happens, there is normally a choice between two
  or more pushes which are identical, except for rotations and
  mirroring. For non-trivial levels, the other optimization methods
  cannot detect optimizations based on these choices. As so often
  before when it comes to optimization, the idea to exploit symmetry
  is the invention of Sebastien Gouezel, who implemented it in his
  seminal optimizer. The implementation in YASS, however, is radically
  different and is an independent piece of work. The only thing the
  new module has in common with his program is the idea to exploit the
  symmetry. The new optimization method runs as an integrated part of
  the "Rearrangements" method, and the user doesn't need to do
  anything special to apply it to symmetrical levels. Thanks to
  Sokobano for information about this method.
. Added new option to the top bar menu in the optimizer window:
  "Settings | Alternate 'first/second' and 'box lines/first'
  optimization metrics". An example: After optimizing "moves, pushes",
  a "box lines, moves" optimization is attempted, and if it succeeds
  then "moves, pushes" is tried again. This us sometimes a useful
  method to escape from a suboptimal local minimum.
. Added new option to the top bar menu in the optimizer window:
  "Alternating optimizations order...", offering the choice which
  alternating optimizations to try first: "Primary/secondary" metrics
  or "Box lines/first" metrics.
. Moved the replay speed slider from the left side of the statusbar to
  the right side, next to the "Replay" button. Since they work in
  tandem the proximity is ergonomically better, especially if the game
  window is maximized.
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Sound | Reset sound effects on
  loading a skin". The default value is "No". It's a dilemma what to
  do about sound effects when a skin is loaded. If the previous skin
  had its own skin-specific sound effects, then it's best to reset
  them before a new skin is loaded. If the user has chosen the sound
  effects, then it's best to leave them untouched. Previously, the
  application conservatively made a reset, but now with this new
  option available, it makes more sense with "No" as default value
  because there are so few skins which have their own sound effects.
  Thanks to "George from Virginia" for this suggestion.
. Improved the speed of the service function responsible for
  calculating the boxes that can reach a given square on the board.
  The modification was removed in version 1.478 because it had a
  logical flaw.) The previous version improved the speed by 25-30% by
  polishing the old program code. This version, on the other hand,
  benefits from an improved logic, so large levels filled up with
  boxes are calculated almost instantly. The only level type which
  still can bring the calculation to its knees is a large wide open
  level. For an empty 50 x 50 level, the calculation takes less than a
  second, so even in this situation, the response time is perfectly
  all right. The calculation time has always been good enough for the
  vast majority of the levels, and with the new logic it's even more
  unlikely that the calculation exceeds the time limit, which guards
  the application so it doesn't stop responding to user commands.
. Bugfix (1.465): High-quality scaling of screen background images had
  stopped working for large images if cropping had to be applied to
  select a suitable center section for filling the window. The effect
  was that only a part of the image showed up on the screen.
. Bugfix: When the current game position matches a snapshot played in
  the opposite direction, e.g., a reverse mode snapshot when the game
  on the board is played in normal forward mode, then the two of them
  can form a solution. In the 'Snapshots and Solutions' window, the
  right-click popup menu offers the choice to concate them. This
  concatenation failed sometimes because it didn't initialize the
  deadlock detection information correctly before the process, so it
  could happen that legal pushes falsely were rejected as being
  illegal. It was only the concatenation which was affected, and the
  deadlock detection worked correctly again when the game was resumed.
. Bugfix: Clicking a wall square highlights the movable boxes. In
  reverse mode, there was one special case which didn't work: If a box
  could be pulled in one direction only, and the player happened to be
  located at the same square as it would occupy after the pull, then
  the box wasn't highlighted. The bug only affected "Show all movable
  boxes". Clicking the box itself highlighted its legal pulls
  correctly.
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, there was a
  bug in the "Vicinity search" optimizer method which affected levels
  with forced initial pushes. Sometimes, these levels made the
  optimizer terminate abnormally with a program error. Thanks to
  Sokobano for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.468
. Improved the speed of the service function responsible for
  calculating the boxes that can reach a given square on the board.
  The improvement is 25-30%, but since the speed always has been more
  than good enough for normal levels, the difference is only
  noticeable for a few extreme levels. It's seldom that the
  improvement has any practical importance. The default pathfinding
  time limit is 2 seconds (see the option "Control | Pathfinding |
  Maximum search time" in the 'Settings' window), which ensures that
  the application doesn't stop responding for too long, but often,
  extreme levels with several hundred boxes cannot be calculated with
  such a small limit.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.467
. Increased the maximum number of boxes from 1000 to 1200. The limit
  is somewhat arbitrary, and 1200 makes it possible to create a
  checkerboard pattern on a 50x50 cells board, with half of the board
  filled with boxes (48 x 48 / 2 = 1152) which is a reasonable upper
  bound on the population density without creating immovable boxes.
  Thanks to Ming for this observation and suggestion.

Version 1.466
. Minor changes in the "Jumanji3" skin. Thanks to Gerry Wiseman.

Version 1.465
. Added a new improved version of Gerry Wiseman's "Jumanji3" skin. 
  Thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.464
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.

Version 1.463
. Bugfix: Clicking the middle mouse button is a shortcut for toggling
  between normal play and reverse mode play. If squares were
  highlighted (e.g., after activating "show legal pushes for a box")
  then these highlights remained on the screen after the toggle until
  the user made the next action. It was only the shortcut which was
  affected. Clicking the "Toggle" button itself worked correctly.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.462
. Minor changes.

Version 1.461
. The common skin format now supports encoding of the outer wall
  trimming as colored lines at the bottom of the skin settings cell
  located at the 4th column and the 4th row of the image. Second-last
  row: A left justified colored line represents left trimming, and a
  right justified line represents right trimming. Last row: A left
  justified colored line represents top trimming, and a right
  justified line represents bottom trimming. The colored lines don't
  use the first and the last pixels in the rows, thereby leaving the
  entire cell height free to use for information encoded along the
  left and the right side of the 4,4-cell. Sokoban YASC supports these
  colored lines at the bottom of the 4,4-cell, but does not depend on
  them. Skins bundled with Sokoban YASC have all their skin-specific
  settings embedded as text in the inner rectangle of the 4,4-cell,
  including wall trimming. The rationale for having the colored lines
  encoding is that it makes it much easier for other clones to
  retrieve the most important skin-specific settings.
. Changed the name of the option "Outer wall razor, pixels" to "Outer
  wall trimming, pixels". Thanks to Eric Sunshine for this suggestion.
. Completed adding built-in solutions for David W. Skinner's
  "Mas Sasquatch" levels.
. Added built-in solutions for David W. Skinner's level sets
  "Microban", "Mas Microban", and "Loma".
. Removed a small limitation in the level editor. The level editor has
  always had the limitation that when the user selected an area of
  size 50x49 or 49x50 (i.e., maximum size except 1 column or 1 row)
  then it was impossible to move the area by a drag-and-drop
  operation. For the user this was, of course, an unexpected behavior
  and it could be a minor nuisance in the few cases where the user
  dealt with a maximum size level. The limitation had to do with the
  implementation of the board auto-size-and-positioning logic which
  keeps the board in the middle, so the user can add new columns and
  rows without manual repositioning. Software development is often a
  process more similar to organic growth than to blue-printed design,
  and the original auto-size-and-positioning module had ended up so it
  was next to impossible to figure out how to avoid the limitation.
  The only practical way to fix it was to code a new module. There has
  been some controversy whether this issue was a limitation or a bug.
  For the developer it was just a regrettable limitation because 1)
  the behavior was known and intended from the time of shipment, and
  2) it didn't cause any malfunctioning in the application. For the
  user, on the other hand, it could be seen as a bug because 1) the
  behavior was unexpected, and 2) it prevented the user from moving
  the selected area.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.460
. The "NightShift3" skin by Gerry Wiseman has been replaced by a new
  version, where the pusher animation is similar to the box animation.
  Thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.459
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Tools | Duplicate finder
  | Advanced identity check (disadvantage: misses some symmetric
  duplicates)". The default value is "No". When it's enabled, the
  duplicate finder's board normalization service function removes
  redundant floors which meet these criteria: 1) A box can never be
  located at the floor, and 2) the pusher never needs the floor to get
  in position for pushing a box. An example: The entire right side of
  the (run-length encoded) board
  "5#|#3-7#|#-$3-#--@#|#3-#5-#|#3-#-#3-#|#5-#3-#|#.--7#|5#" can be 
  eliminated, producing the normalized board
  "5#|#3-3#|#-$3-#|#3-#@#|#3-#-#|#5-#|#.--3#|5#". This improvement can
  also be seen in action in the editor after enabling "Settings |
  Normalization is permitted to move player and boxes" in the
  editor's menu bar. Removing these redundant floors requires a
  sophisticated and time-consuming calculation, and it only affects a
  few levels. Unfortunately, it also makes it impossible to catch some
  symmetric levels because the selection of which floors to remove
  inevitably depends on the orientation of the board, and consequently
  that rotated and mirrored boards may be normalized differently.
  That's why the removal is disabled by default.
. Bugfix (1.454): For reverse mode play and darkened illegal squares,
  version 1.454 promised to return to using the images where the
  objects (player and boxes) have been separated from the background.
  The application only did that for non-goal floor squares, probably
  on purpose. However, there doesn't seem to be any reason for not
  doing the same for goal squares, so this is what the application
  does now. The advantage is that the special background is visible
  behind the object, also for goal squares.
. Fixed a mathematical terms ignorance issue related to the
  calculation of the in-between frames for the "stand still"
  animations. The calculation isn't an extrapolation but an
  interpolation, hence, the options found in the 'Settings' window
  have been renamed accordingly.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.458
. Added a new improved version of Gerry Wiseman's "SokoGems" skin.
  Thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.457
. Changed the default value for the "Open positions limit?" option in
  the level generator settings from "enabled" to "disabled". It's a
  dilemma what the default value should be. Often, the users are best
  served with "enabled" because the cutoff provides faster progress.
  One cannot even say that the cutoff always leads to shorter levels.
  Maybe it just leads to a different class of levels so overall,
  "Enabled" seems a reasonable choice, at least for the default board
  size, 6x6 squares. However, the casual user cannot be expected to be
  aware of the existence of this cutoff and the impact it has on the
  search. For instance, if users seed the generator with levels bigger
  than the default size, they will so to speak be "cheated" if the
  cutoff makes the generator produce shorter levels than it otherwise
  could have done.
. Flipped the two default row colors for the level duplicate finder
  tool, so the first of the duplicates appears on the screen as
  highlighted.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.456
. Bugfix (1.401): The level generator could enter an infinite loop and
  make the application stop responding in this scenario: The user
  selected so small limits (e.g., a board with only 5x3 squares) that
  the level generator could enumerate all legal permutations. In the
  general case, the level generator cannot know when all permutations
  have been enumerated, so it simply continues trying to create new
  ones until it finds one, or until the user terminates the job. 

Version 1.455
. Bugfix (1.436): In large levels with more than 255 boxes, the
  deadlock detection and the pathfinding could falsely categorize some
  pushes as being illegal. The bug was introduced in version 1.436,
  when the deadlock detection started to check whether boxes freezing
  at their final goal squares prevent the player from filling other
  goals. Thanks to Findus for reporting this bug.
. Added a workaround for a problem some Windows versions have with
  texts in rich-text format. The problem occurred during clipboard
  export of solver statistics and optimizer statistics. When a level
  name ended with a non-ascii character, some Windows versions
  responded with "Richedit line insertion error". Since the statistics
  don't really need rich-text formatting, the simple "solution" is to
  collect the statistics as plain text instead of using a rich-text
  component. Thanks to Ming for reporting this issue.

Version 1.454
. Added a new improved version of Gerry Wiseman's "Magneto" skin.
  Thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. Changed the "Copy board to clipboard" feature so it copies the
  current board state to the clipboard. Previously, it copied the game
  starting position, but the new scheme is more useful. The change
  applies to all 3 "Copy board to clipboard" keyboard shortcuts,
  Ctrl+B, Alt+B, and Shift+Ctrl+B. Thanks to Zlatko Tsanev for this
  suggestion.
. The terms "push-reachable squares" and "pull-reachable-squares"
  denote the sets of all the squares reachable by one or more boxes
  when they are pushed/pulled around on the board during normal play/
  reverse mode play. The pull-reachable squares may contain squares
  which aren't members of the push-reachable squares. These
  not-push-reachable squares are, of course, illegal squares no matter
  whether the game is played forwards or backwards. The pathfinding
  and the deadlock detection, however, didn't block pulls to
  not-push-reachable squares in reverse mode play. Thanks to Matthias
  Meger for suggesting to do that.
. A small drawing flaw in the walls of the "AntiqueDesk3" skin has
  been fixed. Thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. Bugfix (1.450): In normal game mode it works fine with the newly
  added improvement, having separate player and box images for
  "stand still" and "object in motion". The original player and box
  images are better for "stand still" because they don't suffer from
  the inevitable inaccuracies, which creep in when the objects are
  separated from the background, as they must be for "object in 
  motion" images. However, using the original images doesn't work
  satisfactory in reverse mode play and when squares are darkened by
  the somewhat obscure but quite useful "Show simple dead squares"
  feature. In both cases, the original images hide the special
  background superimposed on the board by the application. To avoid
  this conflict, reverse mode play and the simple dead squares now 
  again use the objects separated from the background, i.e., the
  "object in motion" images. Thanks to Matthias Meger for reporting
  this conflict.
. Bugfix: In the duplicate finder, some levels appeared twice on the
  list (as if they were duplicates) in this scenario: The current
  folder was selected for scanning, and one or more of its subfolders
  was on the list of scanned folders too. It was levels in these 
  subfolders which appeared twice. Thanks to Findus for reporting this
  bug.
. Bugfix: The deadlock detection could on rare occasions falsely 
  categorize some pushes as being illegal. Thanks to Findus for
  reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: The accompanying YASS solver and optimizer and the built-in
  YASGen level generator had some problems on computers with more than
  2 GiB memory. Each individual 32-bit program, like Sokoban YASC and
  YASS, can only work with 2 GiB memory, even when the computer has
  more than that. Sokoban YASC and YASS allowed the user to reserve up
  to 75% of the physical memory for the transposition table, but
  didn't impose a 2 GiB limit. If the user reserved more memory, it
  resulted in an abnormal termination of the application during
  processing. The new versions impose a 2 GiB memory limit, but it's
  an open question what the exact limit should be in order to avoid
  all memory access errors related to this topic. Feedback is welcome.
  Thanks to Michael for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.453
. Bugfix: SuperSoko skins don't have player images, and therefore
  Sokoban YASC loads them together with its own default player image.
  In this process, the player image was downscaled to the same tile
  size as the SuperSoko images. This was unnecessary and caused a
  loss of drawing details if/when the skin later is upscaled so the
  board size matches the game window. Only the player image was
  affected, not the player-on-goal image.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.452
. Improved the move animation settings slightly for the pusher-on-goal
  object in the "AntiqueDesk3" skin.

Version 1.451
. Added a new version of Gerry Wiseman's "AntiqueDesk3" skin where the
  goal squares are darker than the floor squares, thereby improving
  the already excellent gameplay qualities of the skin. Thanks to
  Eric Sunshine for this suggestion and to Gerry Wiseman for the
  drawings.
. Stopped bundling the Gerry Wiseman skin "Metalica2" with the
  application. This skin is identical to the newer "Metalica3" except
  for not having a grid. The grid improves the gameplay quality, so
  despite the fact that the grid-less version is a perfectly
  good-looking skin, it doesn't feel justified to distribute both
  versions.
. Stopped bundling the Gerry Wiseman skin "NightShift2" with the
  application. Even though it has some independent creative qualities
  of its own, such as its box animations, the skin can to some extent
  be seen as a forerunner for "NightShift3". There has been talk
  about giving "NightShift2" a face-lift, so maybe it will be
  resurrected later.

Version 1.450
. Added a new improved version of Gerry Wiseman's "AntiqueDesk" skin.
  This edition is a replacement for both the original "AntiqueDesk"
  skin and for "AntiqueDesk2". Thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. Added two new options to 'Settings': "Graphics - Board - Figures - 
  Player on goal square - Use "Player" image for move animation" and
  "Graphics - Board - Figures - Box on goal square - Use "Box" image
  for move animation". The idea is that for some skins, it's easier to
  separate the object (player or box) from the background when the
  object is drawn on top of the floor square instead of the goal
  square. Easier separation improves the quality of the objects (there
  are less background artifacts) so it looks better when the objects
  move around on the board.
. Updated settings for the accompanying skins which can benefit from
  the new feature described in the preceding point.
. Bugfix: The option found in the 'Settings' window, "Control - 
  Pathfinding - Show legal moves - Player cursor - Enabled", which
  controls whether the application highlights the pusher when it's
  selected with the mouse, wasn't taken into account. Instead, the
  application used the value of the similar "... Box cursor - 
  enabled" option.
. Bugfix: Resizing the main window during replay of a game is
  something which seldom happens in practice, but the application
  should nevertheless handle it gracefully. The application has always
  had the necessary machinery to do that, but at some point it had
  stop working correctly under all circumstances. Sometimes it left
  artifacts of the pusher image at the wrong (the old) position on
  the screen.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.449
. The Gerry Wiseman skins "Alchemyst", "AntiqueDesk3",
  "ChineseCheckers", "Jumanji3", "Magneto", "MarbleMagic", and
  "Skulloban" have all been replaced by new improved versions. Thanks
  to Gerry Wiseman.
. Small improvements of the accompanying YASS solver have increased
  its score from 72 to 73 solved of the 90 levels in the XSokoban
  level set, the quasi standard Sokoban solver test suite. (Current 
  status: 84 solved.) 
. The accompanying YASS solver performs a small optimization after it
  finds a solution. The solver tries to reduce the number of box
  changes by rearranging the existing pushes. Normally this doesn't
  change the number of pushes in the solution, but on rare occasions
  it can happen that the transformation produces a new solution where
  the solved position occurs twice, i.e., where some of the tail
  pushes are unnecessary because the puzzle already has been solved.
  This situation is handled correctly now, so it's the shortest
  solution which is returned, instead of the long one with the
  superfluous pushes after the first solution.
. Bugfix: The 'Tools' window has its two "hosts" for solver plugins
  and optimizer plugins. These hosts failed to import a solution from
  the plugins if the solution suffered from the malformation mentioned
  in the preceding point, i.e., when the solution contained
  superfluous pushes after reaching the solved position for the first
  time.
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver, there was a bug in one of
  its self-monitoring checks so it on rare occasions reported an error
  in the capacity calculation for the deadlock patterns, even though
  nothing was wrong. The error report appeared after a solution had
  been found, and the solution itself was not affected in any way.
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver, there was a bug so the
  solver on rare occasions falsely reported that a level was
  unsolvable.
. Bugfix (1.434): The level reader module has some special logic for
  proper identification of levels with short rows which only serve a
  decorative purpose and which are too short to be proper level rows.
  This logic was in a sense correct, but it suffered from exponential
  growth so, say, 20 succeeding rows with only a single wall cell
  each, would overwhelm the application so it stopped responding.
. Bugfix (1.401): The level generator could on rare occasions cause
  the application to stop responding. The scenario was this one: By
  preparing the next candidate(s), the generator choosed only to
  produce a single offspring, instead of producing two by invoking the
  crossover function. If this single offspring for some reason was
  discarded, e.g., if it after adding in mutations turned out to be a
  duplicate, then the generator went on an processed what it expected
  to be the second offspring produced by the crossover function.
  Since crossover hadn't been invoked, the generator processed
  un-initialized "ghost" data with unpredictable consequences.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.448
. The "Metalica2" skin by Gerry Wiseman has been replaced by a new 
  version with darker floors and walls, thereby improving the 
  graphical qualities as well as the gameplay qualities. Thanks to
  Gerry Wiseman.
. Added a new "Metalica3" skin by Gerry Wiseman. This new skin is
  identical to "Metalica2" with an added grid. Thanks to Gerry
  Wiseman.
. Internally, the skin mechanism now operates with separate "stand
  still" and "object in motion" images. Skins in the "Common skin
  format" have pusher and boxes drawn on top of floor images and goal
  images. This forces the skin mechanism to identify the objects in
  the images by "lifting" the objects up from the background using a
  "digital pair of scissors" which in practice is a pixel-by-pixel
  thresholded subtraction of the background (floor or goal) from the
  image including both the object (pusher or box) and the background.
  After scaling an image such a "lifting" is inevitably a little
  imprecise around the outline of the object, in particular if the
  object includes a smooth gradient shadow. Previously, the skin
  mechanism used the "lifted" object both for "stand still" and
  "object in motion" states. For "object in motion" there is no
  alternative because only the "lifted" object (without background)
  should move across the board. For "stand still", on the other hand,
  there isn't really any reason to use the imprecise "lifted" object.
  Instead, the skin mechanism can just as well show the (scaled)
  original image and thereby keep as many details from the original
  image as possible. Thanks to Gerry Wiseman for bringing this up.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.447
. Small improvements of the accompanying YASS solver have increased
  its score from 70 to 72 solved of the 90 levels in the XSokoban
  level set, the quasi standard Sokoban solver test suite. (Current 
  status: 84 solved.) 
  Additionally, the solver has a new timeslicing scheme for the 
  different solver methods: 50% packing order search, 25% backwards 
  search, and 25% forwards search. Previously, all methods were 
  allowed to run until memory was full, and sometimes this caused
  the packing order search method to use up the time before the other
  methods got a chance.
. The accompanying YASS solver has a new "Stop when solved" option.
  The default value is "No". Previously, if the search was controlled
  by a time limit, then some of the solver methods used up all the
  time to search for shorter solutions. That was inconvenient in a
  batch run, solving several levels, if the only purpose was to just
  find any solution for the levels.
. The "NightShift3" skin by Gerry Wiseman has been replaced by a new
  version featuring new pusher animations and box animations. Thanks
  to Gerry Wiseman.
. Renamed the skin tile "Wall top" to "Wall cap" throughout the 
  documentation and the settings. Thanks to Eric Sunshine for pointing
  out there is this proper English term for it, and thanks to John 
  Polhemus for updating the skin tutorial.
. Bugfix (1.436): There was a tiny bug in the deadlock detection
  module in the accompanying YASS Sokoban solver. Theoretically, the
  bug could have both a negative and a positive impact on the solver's
  ability to solve levels, but it's extremely unlikely this has ever
  happened in practice, so fixing the bug is mostly a question about
  correctness. 
. Corrected a minor graphical error in the "Metalica2" skin by Gerry
  Wiseman. Thanks to Eric Sunshine for reporting this issue.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.446
. The "Sokoban for Windows" program recently changed the format for
  its solution files in order to support long solutions with more than
  65535 moves. The file conversion module here in Sokoban YASC has
  been updated accordingly. The file conversion detects which format
  (old/new) the solution files have, so the conversion is still fully
  automatic and no user intervention is required.

Version 1.445
. Corrected a graphical error in the "Metalica2" skin by Gerry
  Wiseman. Floor squares and goal squares hadn't the exact same gray
  background color. The difference was invisible on a normal computer
  screen with 24 or 32 bits color depth, but it was clearly visible
  on, say, a cell phone with only 16 bit color depth. Thanks to Gerry
  Wiseman for repairing the skin, and to Eric Sunshine for reporting
  this issue.

Version 1.444
. Changed the default population size from 20 to 50 in the YASGen
  level generator tool. The relationship between genetic algorithm
  (GA) parameters and results is complex, and there is no
  straightforward answer to the question what the optimal population
  size is. Generally, genetic algorithms don't benefit from overly
  large populations, but on the other hand the population size must be
  large enough to ensure some diversity, and tests seem to indicate
  that 50 is a better choice than 20.

Version 1.443
. Added the "Disciple" level set by "Crazy Monk" (Jean-Pierre Martel
  and Matthias Meger), including built-in solutions.

Version 1.442
. Corrected a spelling error in the built-in help: "manor" =>
  "manner". (In my defense, I knew the difference between these words
  perfectly well, but I hadn't written that part of the text myself
  and I had overlooked the mistake by proofreading.) Thanks to George
  Miles for pointing it out.

Version 1.441
. Minor changes.

Version 1.440
. Added a partial work around for the missing support of network
  files. Normally, Sokoban YASC stores application data like levels
  and skins in a subfolder under the user's "Documents" folder. 
  However, if this folder is located on a network instead of the
  local computer, then Sokoban YASC doesn't work. This version tries
  to circumvent this limitation by making an attempt to store the
  application elsewhere on a local drive. Alternatively, there is a
  new command line parameter "/documents" followed by a path, which
  specifies which local folder to use for the application data. An
  example:

  "C:\Program Files\BDSokobanYASC\Sokoban.exe"
    /documents "C:\Local Documents"

  Notice the use of "..." around parameters with embedded spaces. You
  need to substitute "C:\" with the actual drive letter in case your
  Windows system in on a different drive, and depending on the Windows
  version you need a localized text for "Program Files". Furthermore,
  the folder must be located somewhere where you have read/write
  access. You can run the program manually from a command line with
  these parameters (Windows "Start" button and "Run..."), but to avoid
  typing the parameters repeatedly it's better to edit the installed
  shortcuts to the application, i.e., the desktop shortcut and the
  start menu shortcut. Depending on the Windows version and setup, it
  may be necessary to run the application with administrator rights in
  order for the work around to work. Thanks to Dale Powell for
  reporting the missing support for networked files issue.


Version 1.439
. Bugfix: In the 'Snapshots and Solutions' window, the right-click
  popup menu offers the choice to create a forwards solution based
  upon a backwards solution when the latter is the currently selected
  one on the list. The new solution was, however, simply added to the
  snapshot list without taking into account that the new solution
  might be a new best solution, and that the "Best solutions" 
  information presented in the window should be updated accordingly.

Version 1.438
. Minor changes.

Version 1.437
. Bugfix (1.436): In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, there
  was a bug in the new packing order calculation which on rare
  occasions prevented the solver from finding the packing order it
  was supposed to find. Often, the calculation could find a different
  packing order, so correcting the bug is mostly a question about
  correctness, and it has practically no impact on the number of
  solved levels.

Version 1.436
. Major new feature: Error recovery. In the general case it would be
  impractical for the users if level files were updated each time a
  new solution has been found. There is no upper bound on the number
  of levels in a collection, and loading, updating, and saving a huge
  collection could make the whole operation unbearably slow. Also, if
  the user finds a new solution by playing the game in the main
  window, it would be incorrect behavior to update the level
  immediately because the user should be given the chance to save the
  level as a new file instead of updating the existing file.
  Previously, a hardware failure could lead to loss of newly found,
  but not yet stored solutions. This situation has greatly improved
  now that all solutions are logged as soon as they have been found.
  If the application terminates abnormally, e.g., because of a power
  failure, then the logged solutions are recovered the next time the
  application is launched. In the current implementation of the error
  recovery, there are a few limitations related to moving and renaming
  levels (simple normal cases work), so it can happen sometimes that
  the error recovery cannot find the level to which a solution
  belongs. These orphaned solutions does not evaporate into thin air.
  Instead, you're offered the choice to copy the orphaned solutions to
  the clipboard, so you can retrieve them from there and decide what
  to do with them.
. Major improvement: The accompanying YASS solver has become
  significantly better at solving goal-room themed levels like the
  ones found in the XSokoban level collection, which is the
  traditional test suite for Sokoban solver programs. The collection
  contains the 50 original levels by "Thinking Rabbit" and 40
  additional levels. The previous YASS version could solve 48 of them,
  the new version can solve 70. (Current status: 84 solved.) There are 
  two main factors contributing to this improvement. First and 
  foremost, the mechanism responsible for precalculating the expected 
  packing order has grown from being practically non-existent to a 
  quite sophisticated, and often successful analysis. For instance, 
  the new packing order calculation takes into account that some 
  levels require boxes to be parked somewhere on the board before the 
  boxes can be brought to their final goal squares in a later game 
  phase. The second main factor contributing to the improvement is 
  that the deadlock detection, which always has been quite 
  sophisticated, has become even more thorough now, at the expense of 
  a much higher running time. Instead of searching though a lot of 
  game positions, the solver now spends most of its time analysing 
  potential deadlock situations by scrutinizing all fenced-in areas 
  encountered on the board during the search.
. In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the first phase of
  the optimizer module "Vicinity search" is now up to 20% faster. The
  first phase generates a large set of candidate game states and
  previously, the module used what technically is called a "binary
  search tree" (BST) to keep track of the game states that have been
  generated and stored in the internal database. The time it takes to
  look up an item in a BST decays over time when million of items are
  added to the database, and previously this was compensated by a
  periodical (each time a million items had been added) optimal
  reorganization of the BST. That worked very well, but substituting
  the BST by another (slightly more complex) tree-type called a
  "red-black tree" (RBT) has proven beneficial. A RBT keeps the
  lookup time near optimal throughout its lifetime at the expense of
  only a slightly higher time cost per added item, so overall it
  outperforms a plain BST using only a periodical reorganization.
. Improved the deadlock detection by catching a large subset of the
  deadlocks where a box freezes at its final goal square and thereby
  prevents the player from filling other goals. This may sound like a
  minor refinement but technically it required quite sophisticated new
  machinery so this is something to take notice of. For efficiency,
  the detection is limited to situations where A) a box freezes at a
  goal square, or B) 2 adjacent boxes freeze at goal squares up
  against a wall. This makes it possible to perform all calculations
  at load time, so normal game play doesn't suffer from any running
  time penalties.
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Solutions | Save old best
  solutions after finding better ones". The default value is "Yes".
  Previously, a dethroned best solution was always deleted. That made
  some sense in the early years when the user could not do much else
  with a best solution than replay it in the main window. Now that the
  user has more options - such as trying to optimize solutions, and to
  edit the notes for the solution - it's much more correct that the
  application by default keeps the dethroned solutions and shows them
  in the 'Snapshots' window together with the other snapshots and
  solutions. Thanks to Matthias Meger for bringing this up.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.435
. David W. Skinner's level "Sasquatch V-33" begins and ends with short
  decorative rows which doesn't affect the playability of the level.
  At some point, the last of the these rows had been separated by a
  blank line from the board, and therefore it was treated as a part of
  the level notes. Thanks to Ming for reporting this.

Version 1.434
. One of the tasks the level loader is facing, is that it must
  distinguish between boards and meta data in a level file. To do
  that, it uses a set of syntax rules. Reliability has always had
  first priority, and it has always been a minor annoyance that the
  syntax ruled out short board rows with less than 3 characters.
  Overall this is a quite reasonable rule to safeguard against stray
  typos in comment lines in the level file, e.g., a line containing
  "#" only, but there are levels using short board rows for a
  decorative purpose. Now the level loader handles these short rows
  better, without sacrifing the reliability. The enhanced syntax rule
  is that short rows are interpreted as part of a board, provided the
  preceding and succeeding board rows constitute a proper board.
. In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the maximum number of
  pushes for the solver has changed from 500 to 600. The traditional
  solver test suite is the XSokoban 90 levels set. YASS can solve 2
  more levels with the 600 limit, bringing the current total up to 48
  solved levels. (Current status: 84 solved.)
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, there was a
  bug in the optimizer module "Box permutations" which only appeared
  on rare occasions. Sometimes an optimizer finds a new best path by
  introducing a cycle that weren't there in the original solution
  (sic). The optimizer has always had a cycle removal service function
  to handle this situation, but in contrast to the other optimizer
  methods, "Box permutations" didn't initialize the cycle removal
  correctly. The result was that the optimizer only worked on the
  moves before the cycle, in effect just optimizing a fraction of the
  solution. Therefore, the statistics reported on the screen indicated
  exceptionally good optimization results compared to the full
  solution. When the optimization task terminated, the optimized
  part-solution was dropped, and no harm was done to the original
  solution or the level itself. Thanks to Findus for reporting this
  bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.433
. Minor changes in the skin tutorial by John Polhemus.
. Updated the file format specification to clarify that run length
  encoding of moves and boards may use parenthesis for grouping, and
  that groups may be nested. An example: A board row represented by
  the characters "#-#-#-##-#-#-#" may be encoded as "2(3(#-)#)".
. Previously, the level reader only supported run length encoded
  groups for moves, but not for boards. Now grouping is supported
  for boards too. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.432
. Bugfix (1.430): With  "Alternate first/second optimization metrics"
  enabled, it could sometimes happen that if a solution gave rise to
  two independent best solutions, e.g., a best moves/pushes solution
  and a best pushes/moves solution, then it was only the last one
  found, that in the end was saved to the level file. The problem had
  to do with the way the application tried to avoid saving dethroned
  solutions produced during the run. There is no easy way for the
  application to keep track of the history, so for safety all
  alternating solutions are saved now. Thanks to Sokobano for
  reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: After setting the option "Control | Level format | Copy to
  clipboard | Show combined moves" in the 'Settings' window to "yes",
  and then copying a level to the clipboard, the program also saved
  level files to disk with "(" ... ")" around the combined moves for
  the rest of the current session with the program. This had, of
  course, no impact on the program's ability to read the levels back
  in. It was just not the requested formatting of the level files.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.431
. Sokoban YASC has always handled it gracefully if a level file is
  blocked by another application (e.g., a word processor used for
  viewing/editing the raw file) at the time Sokoban YASC must update
  the file on disk. When that happens, the level file is saved to a
  new file, and the user is informed about the new state of affairs.
  However, if no other levels were opened before exiting Sokoban YASC,
  the next session started out with opening the original version of
  the level file. This was confusing because the user would expect to
  be working on the most recent version. The user probably doesn't
  notice which version it is, and if the original file still is
  blocked by the other application, then further modifications of the
  level would - correctly, but probably surprisingly for the user -
  lead to more copies of the original version. Thanks to Sokobano
  for bringing this up.

Version 1.430
. New optimizer feature: Alternate first/second optimization metrics.
  The optimizer can now make a flip-flop so optimization continues
  with alternating first/second optimization metrics (e.g., 
  moves/pushes and pushes/moves) until no further optimizations are
  found. This feature is available from the optimizer menu under
  "Settings | Alternate first/second optimization metrics...".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.429
. Bugfix (1.428): The 1.427 bugfix in version 1.428 was flawed. It
  made the duplicate finder fail detecting the identity for (a few)
  more symmetrical levels than before 1.427. What happened was that
  "width" and "height" at the spur of the moment was put in as first
  tiebreakers for identical board transformations, before the more
  time-consuming calculation of the normalized (top left) pusher
  positions. That was a poor choice because "width" and "height"
  don't constitute a unique tiebreaker for the 8 possible board
  transformations.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.428
. Bugfix (1.427): The bugfix in version 1.427 was flawed. Sometimes 
  duplicates of symmetrical levels caused the duplicate finder tools
  "Update solutions for duplicate levels" and "Create new collection
  from unique levels" to stop with an "Internal error" message.
. Bugfix (1.424): The duplicate finder tools "Update solutions for
  duplicate levels" and "Create new collection from unique levels" 
  deliberately didn't take player lines into account when solutions
  were exchanged between identical levels (identical after
  normalization). Non-pushing moves are automatically moves/lines 
  optimized when identical levels share solutions, so it can cause an
  unwanted increase in the number of solutions if every little player
  lines improvement triggers a new solution. On the other hand, this
  also meant that the tools didn't exchange solutions if the player
  lines metric was the only one that had improved. This is incorrect
  behavior in case the user has selected to keep the best solutions
  only. Therefore the logic has changed now, so a player lines
  improvement also triggers a new solution - despite the unfortunate 
  explosion in the number of solutions if the original solutions
  haven't moves/lines optimized non-pushing player moves. Thanks to
  Sokobano for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.427
. Bugfix (1.424): The level duplicate finder failed detecting identity
  for some vertically flipped levels. The 7 other transformations,
  e.g., rotate 90 degrees clockwise, were handled correctly. 
  Furthermore, the duplicate finder sometimes failed detecting
  identity for levels with internal symmetry (because the pusher
  position - for efficiency - wasn't normalized until after a 
  transformation representative had been chosen). Thanks to Sokobano
  for reporting this bug.
. Added new options to 'Settings': "Control | Tools | Optimizer | 
  Alternate first/second optimization metrics". The options are also
  available from the main menu under "Settings" when the optimizer
  tabsheet is selected in the 'Tools' window. Actually, it's only the
  options that have been implemented. The feature itself is not there
  yet, but it would be too much work to remove the options just
  because of the release of a bugfix version like this one.

Version 1.426
. Added new option to the "Scanned folders..." menu for the duplicate
  finder in the 'Open' window: "Scan currently selected folder". 
  Previously, files in the current folder were always scanned. 
  Thanks to Sokobano for this suggestion.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.425
. Added new skin tutorial by John Polhemus to the project download 
  section.
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.
. Added shortcuts to the main window for copying the board to the
  clipboard, as opposed to copying the entire level to the clipboard
  including title, notes, solutions, and snapshots. The new shortcuts
  are Ctrl+B, Alt+B, and Shift+Ctrl+B. The first two use "fill
  floors?" and opposite "fill floors?" setting respectively, and the
  last one uses run-length-encoding. The shortcuts for "Copy
  continuation moves to clipboard" have moved to Ctrl+G and
  Shift+Ctrl+G. Thanks to Raymond Groenestein for this suggestion.
. Embedded settings in common skin images don't need to begin with a
  "[<file name>]" text line anymore. If the line is present, it must
  still match the file name without path and extension. It's better to
  omit the line, so spelling errors, or forgetting to update the text
  after renaming the file, don't affect the program's ability to use
  the embedded settings correctly.
. With logfile enabled, it was only the first instance of the
  accompanying YASS solver and optimizer that created a logfile when
  multiple instances were activated at the same time. The other
  instances performed the task with the logfile disabled after
  notifying the user. Now secondary instances create a logfile named
  "YASS <number>.log". Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this issue.
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, there was a
  subtle bug in the pushes/moves "Vicinity search" optimizer module.
  The bug only occured on very rare occasions, with unpredictable
  symptoms ranging from run time errors to infinite loops making it
  necessary to shut down the application. Thanks to "blackrosequilts"
  and Sokobano for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: "Ghost images" of the pusher and the boxes appeared on the
  screen in this scenario: The current game state was a solution, and
  the screen showed a solution animation. If the user now selected
  "undo" to go backwards in the game, and move animation was disabled
  in the settings, then the animation images remained on the screen.
  The game itself was correct, and it was only a matter of a missing
  screen update. Thanks to John Polhemus for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.424
. The language in the built-in help text has greatly improved. Thanks
  to John Polhemus for rewrites, suggestions, and proof-reading.
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. New feature: Find duplicate levels. This new feature is found on the
  menu in the 'Open' window. The duplicate finder has 3 functions:
  "Find levels similar to the currently selected level", "Find 
  duplicates of levels in selected collection", and "Find all
  duplicate levels". Levels are normalized before comparison (using
  the normalization tool that also can be found in the level editor),
  and rotations and mirror transformations are taken into account as
  well. The first function, i.e., "Find levels similar to the
  currently selected level" allows some additional slack in the
  comparison so the function can find duplicates as well as variations
  of a level. To that end, a similarity threshold has been added to
  'Settings': "Control | Tools | Duplicate finder | Current level |
  Match threshold (%)".
. Player lines metric: The number of player lines has been introduced
  as a new fourth secondary metric for the Sokoban game together with
  the three existing ones: Box lines, box changes, and pushing
  sessions. The reason for having the secondary metrics can only be
  that they provide information about the quality of a solution when
  the Sokoban game is viewed upon as a transportation task, and in
  that case the number of player lines is at least as important as the
  other secondary metrics for the vehicle or the robot that must
  perform the moves.
. Player lines metric: Normally, Sokoban is played by using the mouse
  drag to and drop boxes from on square on the board to another. The
  application calculates the optimal pushes to get the box to the
  destination square, and it also calculates the optimal intermediate
  non-pushing player moves. The latter is calculated by the so-called
  "player path finder". Previously, it only optimized the number of
  moves, but now it secondarily optimizes the number of player lines
  as well. In situations where is makes a difference, the new player
  path has fewer turns and therefore looks better. From an aesthetic
  point of view it's also an important improvement that the new paths
  are further optimized so they in the vast majority of cases display
  "inertia", i.e., when there is a choice the player keeps moving in
  its current direction until a turn is unavoidable. This saves the
  user from seeing surprising and seemingly unmotivated turns in the
  middle of nowhere. With "inertia", a turn is always motivated by an
  obstacle on the board, or by the optimality constraint. One minor
  final contribution to the aesthetic value is that the paths also are
  optimized to take a long run before a short run when there is a
  choice between which one to take first. The box path finder has also
  been improved so it is more likely to minimize the number of player
  lines, but optimality is not guaranteed here. Thanks to Matthias
  Meger and Jean-Pierre Martel for testing and finding bugs in early
  versions of the new player path finder, and a special thanks to
  Matthias Meger for getting and sharing the right idea about which
  algorithm to use in the final version of the new player path finder.
. Player lines metric: Removed the options "Control | Solutions |
  Score Metrics Weights" from the 'Settings' window. The comparison of
  secondary score metrics for different solutions doesn't use a
  weighting scheme anymore. Instead, the comparison uses a fixed
  ordering of the secondary metrics: Box lines, box changes, pushing
  sessions, and player lines. Changing from a weighted comparison to a
  fixed order comparison was partially necessitated by the
  introduction of "player lines" as a new fourth secondary metric
  because its weight would not blend in well with the other metrics,
  and partially because it has been questionable from the start,
  whether weighting was a good idea.
. Player lines metric: The accompanying YASS solver and optimizer 
  optimizes the player lines for the found solutions. This is,
  however, only player lines optimization in a weak sense of the word.
  For efficiency, most of the optimization methods only take the 5
  other metrics into account during the search for improvements. Then
  the best found solution has its non-pushing player moves optimized,
  before the solution is returned from the plugin. Tests have shown it
  would increase the running time by 150% to search for player lines
  optimizations; that's why it hasn't been implemented. However, the
  "vicinity search" optimization method can to some extent take the 
  player lines into account during the search with only a minimal
  increase of the running time, so this is the only method actively
  searching for player lines optimizations.
. Player lines metric: The Sokoban plugin interface specification has
  been updated with the new player lines metric. Currently, YASS is
  the only publically available optimizer plugin adhering to this
  standard, and therefore the changes have been made with elegance of
  the specification in mind instead of keeping backwards
  compatibility, so any other existing plugins and optimizer host
  programs must be updated accordingly in order to work together with
  Sokoban YASC and YASS.
. The Sokoban plugin interface specification has been extended to
  allow optimizers to return more than one optimized solution at a
  time. For instance, an optimizer could first optimize an existing
  solution for pushes, and then for moves, and then return both
  solutions to the host program. Currently, YASS is the only
  publically available optimizer adhering to this interface
  specification and it doesn't have this option, but other optimizers
  may very well offer that feature later.
. The optimizer tool in the 'Tools' window has been partially prepared
  for plugins returning more than one optimized solution per task. A
  full implementation, however, will not be made until an optimizer
  appears which uses this feature.
. The accompanying YASS solver and optimizer plugin (version 2.90) has
  been updated according to the modifications of the Sokoban plugin
  interface specification.
. The import of run-length encoded level files has been improved with
  support for run-length encoded move groups like "2(rrrU)". This
  enables the application to import solutions from the YSokoban
  solution database. A group may itself use run-length encoding, e.g.,
  "2(3rU)", and groups may be nested like "2(3r2(urr)u)". The
  implementation imposes a 255 nesting level limit, which in practice
  should be more than enough.
. For a skin with a directional player it could graphically look
  strange if "undo moves" returned the game to the starting position.
  The player's direction was reset to its default direction "down"
  even if the player in the starting position was located on top of a
  wall. The effect was that the player was facing the wall. A better
  scheme is if "undo moves" brings the game back to the starting
  position, then let the player point in the direction of the undone
  move. Thanks to Matthias Meger for this suggestion. Note that this
  "avoid facing a wall in the starting position" scheme only applies
  to "undo moves" and not to "reset game". The rationale is that
  "reset game" should make the game look exactly as it did when it was
  loaded, and here the player image for the default "down" direction
  is often the best signature image for the player.
. Added new options to 'Settings': "Graphics | Open window | Colors |
  Collection background color", and "Graphics | Open window | Colors |
  Collection text color". They default to their old values, 
  lemon-chiffon and black respectively. The collection item highlight
  colors aren't customizable. For consistency, the Windows operating
  system highlight colors are used throughout the application.
. The level normalization feature found on the menu for the level
  editor now comes in two flavors: The original one, and a new variant
  where the outer squares are filled with walls so the board forms a
  rectangle. Thanks to John Polhemus for this suggestion.
. Added optimal settings for importing the skins "NeoKwinto",
  "Piastrelle 2", and "Plastico" from the "Sokoban for Windows" clone
  by Bjoern Kaellmark.
. Bugfix: A serious bug could on rare occasions cause loss of
  solutions in level files. The problem didn't affect level files
  maintained and updated by this application. Only manually edited
  level files and level files from other applications were at risk.
  The scenario was this one: A level had more than one solution stored
  in the file, and the 2 first solutions weren't the best-moves
  solution and the best-pushes solution in that order. In that case, 
  playing the level seemed normal, but when the level was closed, one
  or both of the best solutions disappeared.
. Bugfix: Opening a level could practically lock up the computer if a
  level imported from another application had, say, 1000 snapshots
  with identical names. Adding numerical suffixes to make the names
  unique (e.g., "Snapshot 223") suffered from exponential growth. The
  application has always had built-in logic to prevent that, but it
  was flawed.
. Bugfix: When the user has solved a level, the application quite
  naturally doesn't allow more moves in the game. However, there was
  one rare (and somewhat contrived) situation where this rule wasn't
  fully enforced. The user can drag-and-drop a box with the mouse from
  one position on the board to another. If the user does that with the
  last box before the level has been solved, but specifies a different
  square than the last unfilled goal square, then it can happen that
  the path to the selected destination square goes through the last
  unfilled goal square. At that point, the application correctly
  stopped for more pushes, but if the next moves on the original
  drag-and-drop path were non-pushing player moves, then these moves
  were performed, until the path again contained a box push. The
  application stored the correct solution without the additional
  moves, so no harm was done. Thanks to Matthias Meger for reporting
  this bug.
. Bugfix (1.401): A snaphot of a game was mistakingly named "Solution"
  instead of "Snapshot" in this scenario: After finding a solution,
  the user browsed through the moves and made a snapshot of a position
  on the solution path. The snapshot was correctly named "Snapshot" at
  this point, but next time the level was loaded the snapshot appeared
  with a "Solution" name. The snaphot itself was intact, and it was
  only a matter of wrong text. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this
  bug.
. Bugfix (1.401): In the level generator, resizing the window had the
  effect that the thumbnail preview of the currently focused level
  candidate didn't show up on the screen. Instead, there was only the
  background image. The candidate itself was intact, and thumbnail
  previews reappeared after selecting a different row, i.e., after
  changing focus to another level candidate, so it was only a matter
  of a missing screen update.
. Bugfix (1.370): In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer it
  caused problems if the Windows date/time formatting settings had
  changed between two sessions with Sokoban YASC. The now wrongly
  formatted date/time from the last session triggered an error message
  about "date/time conversion error". There is no need for such a
  message, so now the application simply ignores the date/time
  information from the prior session in case of conversion errors.
  Thanks to "xbluejimx" for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the optimizer
  terminated abnormally with a program error if the level was so small
  that it had a trivial 0-push solution after the level had been
  normalized, i.e., when all pushes leading to the solution were
  forced moves. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the optimizer
  didn't return found improvements in this scenario: "Global
  optimization" was the only method finding improvements, e.g., when
  it was the only enabled method. The improvements were correctly
  reported on the screen, but this didn't trigger the creation of a
  new improved solution when the optimizer finished processing the
  solution.
. Bugfix: Replaying a game didn't work properly for very long games
  with more than 65535 moves. After that point, the replay function
  showed moves modulo 65536. The game itself was intact but it was
  necessary to refresh the window (e.g., by minimizing/maximizing
  the window) in order to restore a correct view of the game position.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.423
. Revised the release notes for version 1.418 in light of the player
  lines optimization idea by Jean-Pierre Martel.

Version 1.422
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Windows | Main window | 
  Collection name in title-line". It has always been a little
  uncomfortable browsing though the levels using the buttons
  "Previous" and "Next" in the main window because changes from one
  collection to another happened without the user seeing what the
  currently loaded collection was. On the other hand, the title-line
  is already at risk of being too long because of all the other
  information put here: Application name, level name, reverse mode
  indication, board dimensions, and rotations. That's why the
  collection name originally wasn't added to the title-line despite
  of the conveniency it would be to have it there. However, by making 
  it an option it's up the user to decide what to do about the
  collection name. Thanks to Juan Uriarte for bringing this up.

Version 1.421
. The level normalization feature found in the editor has been
  slightly improved when it comes to boards surrounded by boxes on
  goals instead of walls. Previously, only squares in the top row and
  the left column were converted to walls. Now the squares in the
  bottom row and the right column are converted to walls as well.

Version 1.420
. Minor changes.

Version 1.419
. The release notes have been gently improved language-wise. Thanks to
  Raymond Groenestein for great help with the English language in the
  release notes as well as the built-in help text.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.418
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Do/undo moves |
  Left-click empty square action)". The default action is "Show boxes
  that can go there", i.e., show the boxes that can be pushed to the
  empty square. The alternative is "Move player to square, if
  possible". The former is what Sokoban YASC has done for years, but
  originally it did the latter. Moving the player is mostly an
  unproductive action; solving Sokoban is about pushing boxes.
  Showing the boxes that can be pushed to an empty square, on the
  other hand, sometimes provides convenient and helpful information.
  However, as pointed out by Jean-Pierre Martel there is one situation
  where it makes sense to move the player manually. When the
  application moves the player automatically it optimizes the number
  of player steps, but there is no secondary optimization of the
  player turns, and if the Sokoban game is seen as a transportation
  task, then the number of player turns is important for the vehicle
  or the robot performing the moves. So if the solution is to be
  optimized for player turns, then it's practical to have the "Move
  player to square" option. Thanks to Jean-Pierre Martel for this
  suggestion. (From version 1.424 the non-pushing player moves are
  automatically optimized primarily for player steps, as they always
  have been, but also secondarily for player turns.) 
. In the 'Settings' window, the "Paste settings from clipboard"
  feature has been split in two: "Paste settings from clipboard -
  Full" and "Paste settings from clipboard - Supplementary". The
  former is reciprocal to "Copy settings to clipboard" and its effect
  is that the settings become "default settings + imported settings",
  whereas the effect of the latter is that the settings become
  "current settings + imported settings". Both forms have their use,
  and having both of them at least makes the distinction clear.
  Thanks to Jean-Pierre Martel for observations on this issue. It can
  be argued that "Open settings from disk..." should be split the same
  way in an "Open - Full..." and an "Open - Supplementary...". This
  has not been done yet because it may look more complicated than
  necessary for the users, but if it turns out there is a need for
  this distinction, then it can be added later.
. Changed default value to "No" for this option in 'Settings':
  "Control | Miscellaneous | Use only one processor (changes require
  restart to take effect)". Currently, there are no indications of
  problems with running the application on multi-core computers.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.417
. Bugfix (1.401): In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer
  plugin, a minor screen updating bug occured on rare occasions in the
  optimizer settings window. Thanks to Ming for reporting this bug.

Version 1.416
. During startup the application has always shown the hint "Left
  clicking the left mouse button on a wall highlights the movable
  boxes". Now one more tip has been added: "Left clicking on an empty
  square shows the boxes that can go there".
. Bugfix (1.415): The 'Tools' window was not updated correctly anymore
  when a solver plugin or an optimizer plugin finished its work.
  For instance, if the user terminated the plugin manually, then the
  text "Terminated by user" didn't appear on the screen. It was only
  the screen text that was affected and the found solution, if any,
  was handled correctly.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.415
. Minor changes.

Version 1.414
. When sound effects are disabled the computer's sound volume is
  left unchanged. Previously, the sound volume was always set to the
  value specified in the settings. This was impracticable if the user
  had disabled the sound effects with the intention to run a sound-
  producing application in parallel with Sokoban YASC, e.g., a music
  player. Thanks to "blackrosequilts" for pointing this out.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.413
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Miscellaneous | Use only
  one processor (changes require restart to take effect)". Default is
  "Yes", thereby reducing the risk of subtle errors, if any, in the
  coordination of parallel tasks which otherwise would be assigned to
  different processors on a multi-core computer.
. In the level editor, the "Normalize board" feature has been slightly
  improved. Thanks to Sokobano for information about a new
  "dead-zone" pattern variant.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.412
. Minor changes.

Version 1.411
. Added an adaptation of Anders Widell's "KSokoban" skin. His graphics
  for this skin is distributed under the GPL license, just like
  Sokoban YASC.
. In the level editor, the "Normalize board" feature has been slightly
  improved with a "fill empty 2x2 pockets with walls" logic. Thanks to
  Sokobano for information about this pattern.
. Bugfix (1.401): If the level generator contained a modified
  candidate set when the user wanted to terminate the application,
  and the user answered "Cancel" to the "Save candidate set?"
  question, then the main window only contained a non-playable "ghost
  image" of the currently opened level. In reality, the level had been
  closed as a part of the shutdown procedure, before the user faced
  the question about what to do with the modified candidate set.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.410
. In the level editor, the "Normalize board" feature has been slightly
  improved.
. Bugfix: Deleting snapshots in the 'Snapshots and Solutions' window
  sometimes failed with an "Access Violation" error message. After
  this message, the only way to terminate and exit the program was by
  using Windows Task Manager, or by restarting Windows. Thanks to
  "blackrosequilts" for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.409
. In the level generator, the analysis of each candidate consists of
  two searches. The first one finds "tail positions" which are the
  trivial final pushes after unwinding the "knots" in the candidate.
  Auto-generated levels with connected goals often have a long tail
  where a great number of boxes at the end of the game simply travel
  from their current positions to their final target positions. The
  second search finds positions that aren't tail positions, and it's
  only these "genuine" positions that contribute to the fitness
  calculation for the candidate. Previously, it was only the second
  search that was subject to the limit on the number of open positions,
  if any. Now the initial tail positions search is subject to this
  limit as well. This may give a less accurate fitness calculation,
  but it was probably too confusing for the user to see a search
  running unconstrained contrary to the expectations after having set
  an open positions limit. Also, the unlimited initial search could be
  just as time-consuming as the second search would be without a
  limit, so an unlimited first search contradicted the purpose of
  having the limit to avoid spending too much calculation time on a
  candidate.
. Bugfix (1.401): In the level generator, the statistical information
  about candidates, where an exhaustive analysis failed because of
  memory limitations, was wrong. Candidates exceeding the "Open list
  limit" were counted as "Memory full" candidates. If the generator
  was seeded with an existing level (as opposed to an auto-generated
  candidate), and the generator was terminated during processing of
  this level, then it counted in the statistics as a "Memory full"
  candidate too. It was only statistical errors, and they had no
  affect on the level generator.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.408
. For the "Copy level to clipboard" feature, the default floor filling
  character has changed from "_" to "-". Despite the graphical
  advantage filling with underscores may have, it has been a mistake
  that Sokoban YASC has tried to promote the underscore as floor
  filling character. The hyphen is better because it makes it easier
  to distinguish the individual floor squares.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.407
. Minor changes.

Version 1.406
. Bugfix: Importing levels from the clipboard has always been as
  flexible as loading levels from a disk file, in particular, levels
  can have both notes, solutions, and snapshots. However, there was a
  glitch when several levels were imported from the clipboard at one
  time. In that case, the first level - which is the one that turns up
  as the currently loaded level - did not save its snapshots, if any,
  when the level later was closed. Its best solutions were saved
  correctly, so it was only snapshots and secondary solutions that
  were missing. The bug did not occur when the clipboard import only
  consisted of a single level.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.405
. If the level generator is running when the user terminates the
  application, then the current candidate set is autosaved to disk
  instead of bothering the user with a "Save it - yes/no?" question.
  The only exception is if it is a new candidate set, in which case
  the user still must provide a name for the set before it can be
  saved. 
. Windows Vista compatibility: The built-in music-player has been
  removed from the application because the new sound/music system in
  Windows Vista is not backwards compatible, and upgrading the
  music-player in Sokoban YASC is not feasible.
. Bugfix (1.401): In the level generator settings, disabling "Autosave
  candidate set every 10 minutes" had the opposite effect. The
  candidate set was saved to disk after every single tested candidate,
  a very time-consuming operation.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.404
. In the level generator settings, the value "Interior walls" for
  random board creation has changed from a count to a percentage. This
  makes it easier to experiment with different board dimensions
  without having to change the "Interior walls" parameter too.

Version 1.403
. In the 'Tools' window, resetting the window dimensions (e.g., by
  using the keyboard shortcuts F11 or Ctrl+F11) now resets the grid
  column widths too. Starting from version 1.401, the grid column
  widths are saved from one session to the next, and it's convenient
  to have a way to reset them to default values.
. Bugfix (1.401): Level generator candidates are "beautified" on the
  screen, e.g., a candidate may contain immovable boxes or unused
  floor squares which on the screen appear as walls. When a candidate
  is selected for editing in the editor, or selected for game play in
  the main window, then the candidate must undergo the same cleansing,
  but here the immovable boxes removal had dropped out.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.402
. When the level generator is started with an empty candidate set, it
  seeds itself with a randomly created candidate. Given the same
  settings, it always generated the same first candidate. Of course,
  that didn't mean that the generator always created the same sequence
  of candidates because random deviations start building up from the
  second candidate. However, for diversity it's better that the first
  candidate is random too.

Version 1.401
. Major new feature: Level generation. The "YASGen" level generator
  has been equipped with a graphical user interface and integrated in
  Sokoban YASC. It is now one of the tools in the 'Tools' window.
. Major feature enhancement: In the accompanying YASS solver and
  optimizer plugin, the optimizer has been improved in several ways.
  First and foremost, the strongest optimization method, "Vicinity
  search", is much less dependent of the user's flair for adjusting
  the parameters to match the individual levels. The introduction of
  "Vicinity quick searches" typically produces reasonable
  optimizations with default settings, so users don't even need to
  understand what the settings mean. The new "quick searches" perform
  successive 1-box vicinity searches before any selected 2-box
  searches. For instance, with the default settings 2-box 20/10
  squares, 3 quick searches are performed: 1-box 10 squares, 1-box 20
  squares, and 1-box all squares. For small levels, this runs so fast
  that the user doesn't notice it. For large levels, a 2-box 20/10 is
  time consuming, and often the initial 1-box searches find
  improvements faster than they would have been discovered by the
  2-box search. This means that the new "quick searches" saves time
  compared to prior versions. For very large levels, a 2-box 20/10
  squares may not be possible at all, and if the user didn't
  understand how to tweak the settings, nothing happened. With the new
  "quick searches", the solution is automatically processed with 1-box
  searches, which is the best that can be done for very large levels,
  so there it's a great advantage in that the user doesn't need to
  understand how to adjust the settings manually. Another important
  improvement is the new logic in the "Rearrangements" optimization
  method, which also has a new name. It has become an independent
  method where it previously was a part of the "Global optimization".
  Then it was called "box-changes optimization", but the new name is
  better, now that the method has been extended. Basically, this
  method looks for box changes that can improve the solution. The
  addition is that if it detects that the push of the box "X" in 
  "....A...XYZ..." is a legal push after "A", then the method tries to
  promote not only "X", but also "XY", and "XYZ" as long at the pushes
  constitute legal promotions. For people acquainted with the original
  "Vicinity search optimization" program by Sebastien Gouezel it may
  be interesting to know that its quick "Box-changes" optimization
  does this too, but because his "Box-changes" feature is optimized
  for speed instead of thoroughness, it only deals with a small
  sub-set of the valid box-changes. It tries to promote "A", "AB" and
  "ABC" in "...AA...ABC" if the promotions are completely independent
  of the intermediate pushes between the "AA" and the third "A", also
  considering non-pushing player steps. The "Rearrangements" method in
  YASS has none of these limitations. 1) It will try break existing
  box sessions. 2) It doesn't look for "A" box pushes only, but
  investigates all box pushes that can be legally promoted. 3) 
  Existing player-steps don't matter; all that is needed is that there
  are legal player paths between the pushes. This makes the
  "Rearrangements" optimization in YASS a much more thorough method,
  but also a much slower method, than the "Box-changes" optimization
  method in the program by Sebastien Gouezel.
. Minor feature enhancement: The editor feature "Remove redundant
  walls" has been upgraded to a "Normalize board" feature. It fills
  jagged wall edges, fills unused "tubes", removes redundant walls,
  and removes unused boxes and goals. Thanks to Sokobano for
  suggestions leading to this improvement.
. Activated the web-links in the built-in help text. Previously, the
  web-site references found here were textual information only. Please
  note that some of the links are "dead" because their original
  web-sites no longer exist.
. In the 'Tools' window, all column widths for the task queue grids
  are now saved from one session to the next. Originally this was not
  considered important enough to implement, so thanks to Jean-Pierre
  Martel and Sokobano for pointing out that this omission was a
  nuisance in the daily work with the program.
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer plugin, the
  optimizer reported the elapsed time correctly during the run, but on
  exit the plugin returned the elapsed time multiplied by 2. The error
  was not visible to users of Sokoban YASC because it calculates the
  elapsed time by itself, but the plugin should, of course, return the
  correct time. Thanks to Raymond Groenestein for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer plugin, the
  was a bug in the optimizer which never affected the use of the
  plugin in Sokoban YASC, but it could theoretically affect its use
  from other host programs. An invalid input solution made the plugin
  terminate with a run time error. Ironically, the plugin has always
  carefully validated the input solution, but due to later modications
  of the optimizer it erred when it sent a message about the situation
  back to the host program. Thanks to Raymond Groenestein for
  reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer plugin, the
  settings for the "Vicinity search" optimization method were
  temporarily reset to their default values if the user opened the
  'Settings' window for the plugin while the optimizer was running.
  The reset only affected the currently running task, and the
  optimizer used the correct settings again the next time it was
  started.
. Bugfix: For skins having floor tiles, the empty floors on the board
  didn't show up in the 'Snapshots and Solutions' window in this
  scenario: Import a level from the clipboard. Then import a solution/
  snapshot for it from the clipboard, and delete the solution/snapshot
  again. Then import a solution/snapshot from the clipboard again. The
  problem only affected the display, the imported solution/snapshot
  was all right.
. Bugfix: After rotating and mirroring the board, the textual
  representation of solutions and snapshots meant for export to the
  clipboard weren't updated accordingly if the textual representation
  had been exported before. Internally, the solutions and snapshot
  were correct; it only affected the "copy solution/snapshot to
  clipboard" feature in the 'Snapshots and Solutions' window.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.400
. Bugfix: In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, terminating
  the solver while it saved positions to disk had stopped working. If
  it happened, the user had to quit the program in order to stop the
  solver.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.399
. In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the optimizer option
  "Fallback strategy" has changed default value from "enabled" to
  "disabled". The option presents a dilemma between best analysis
  (enabled) and batch processing (disabled). Users typically have
  trouble realizing that they must disable this option for batch
  processing, and now that the strong "Vicinity search" method has
  been added to the method palette, the fallback strategy is of less
  importance, and therefore it seems appropriate to change the default
  setting, so it favors batch processing.

Version 1.398
. Bugfix (1.397): There was one rare scenario, where the "Show simple
  dead squares" feature didn't fully kick in until the user pushed a
  box on the board. Until then, the feature correctly showed the
  deadlocked squares, but not any additional unreachable squares. The
  scenario was this one: With the "Show simple dead squares" feature
  disabled, import a new level from the clipboard. Then enable the
  feature in the 'Settings' window, and upon return to the main
  window, only the deadlocked squares were shown. Thanks to Matthias
  Meger for reporting this bug.

Version 1.397
. Enhanced the option "Control | Deadlock detection | Show simple
  deadlock squares" in 'Settings' to "Control | Deadlock detection |
  Show simple dead squares", the difference being that the latter
  includes unreachable squares as well as deadlocked squares.
. Bugfix: The accompanying YASS solver and optimizer plugin pruned
  excess boxes instead of rejecting levels violating the 255 boxes
  limit. This could lead to unpredictable results upon return to the
  calling host program, e.g., Sokoban YASC. In fact, Sokoban YASC
  didn't handle the situation gracefully. Thanks to Sokobano for
  reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: Saving customized widths from one session to another for
  the 3 top groupboxes on the solver tabsheet and the optimizer
  tabsheet had stopped working at some time after it was implemented
  in version 1.370. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.396
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Deadlock detection | Show
  simple deadlock squares". The simple deadlock squares are the
  squares from which a box never can reach a target square, e.g., non-
  goal corner squares and the squares along a closed edge without any
  goals. Showing simple deadlock squares can be disabled or enabled,
  and the shadow color and the transparency are configurable. Please
  note that the default color and transparency for this new feature
  are geared towards skins with bright floors, and they don't look
  particularly good with the default dark background and the default
  no-floor skin.
. Improved the text entry for Sebastien Gouezel in the
  acknowledgements section in the online help, clarifying the
  outstanding importance of his contribution, i.e., that he is the
  inventor of the "Vicinity search" optimization algorithm, and that
  he thereby has made a major contribution - not only to the YASS
  optimizer - but to the Sokoban game itself. Thanks to Matthias Meger
  for mentioning that the outstanding significance of this
  contribution didn't get across in the old text.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.395
. When playing in reverse mode, a new hint text explains the situation
  when the current position looks like a solution except for the fact
  that the player isn't in the correct zone. Without this hint, an
  unreflecting user could misinterpret the situation and think that
  the program made a mistake by not treating the position as a
  solution. Thanks to Matthias Meger for bringing this up.

Version 1.394
. Minor changes.

Version 1.393
. Bugfix: The accompanying YASS optimizer correctly found and reported
  - but didn't produce - an optimized solution if the only improvement
  was that the original solution contained non-optimal non-pushing
  player-moves. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this bug.

Version 1.392
. Bugfix: A spurious error message occured during level editing in
  the 'Tools' window in this scenario: Click "Create new level",
  import a level from the clipboard, click "Create new level" again,
  and answer "No" to the question "This level is new. Do you want to
  save the new level?". Now an uncalled-for error message appeared.
  The level editor continued to work correctly though. Thanks to Ming
  for reporting this bug.

Version 1.391
. Added a new minor feature: "Make a forwards solution from a reverse
  mode solution". The new feature appears on the right-click menu for
  the grid in the 'Snapshots and Solutions' window. After solving a
  level backwards, the program has always automatically created a
  forwards version of the solution if the solution was a new best
  solution, but until now, there was no way to convert secondary
  reverse mode solutions to forwards solutions.

Version 1.390
. Changed the ".sok" level-files format so it uses "[...]" for jumps
  in reverse mode games instead of "<...>". The square brackets avoid
  the conflicts the old notation might have with html and xml-encoding
  of the games in other Sokoban file-formats. For backwards
  compatibility "<...>" is still supported by the program. 

Version 1.389
. Added a game-play keyboard enhancement for reverse mode play. When
  the keyboard is used for reverse mode play, it's sometimes necessary
  to move the player without pulling a box that normally would be
  dragged along by the player move. This task was accomplished by
  combining the [Ctrl] key with the arrows. Now there is a very
  convenient alternative, using arrow keys only. Letting the player
  bump into a box detaches the box so the player can move in the
  opposite direction without pulling the box. Thanks to Raymond
  Groenestein for this idea.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.388
. Bugfix (1.370): The mouse-over hint-text for the 'Snapshots' button
  in the main window had not been updated to reflect the new logic for
  a right-click with the mouse. The new convention introduced in
  version 1.370 is that a right-click with the mouse always resets the
  game if the snapshot selected in the 'Snapshots and Solutions'
  window happens to be a solution. It is only when the selected
  snapshot isn't a solution that a right-click is a convenient
  shortcut for opening the snapshot (provided this is the action
  chosen in the settings).

Version 1.387
. Minor changes.

Version 1.386
. The application load time, and the time it takes to change from one
  level to another, have been dramatically reduced when the computer
  is busy running other tasks in the background. Previously, Sokoban
  YASC was deliberately trying to be nice to other tasks by, in
  effect, making itself a low-priority task when it performed some of
  its computational heavy image processing. The use of non-default
  skins was particularly affected by this policy, making the load time
  intolerably slow if the computer was busy running other tasks in the
  background. Thanks to "anoyedalloy" for bringing this up.

Version 1.385
. In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the optimizer has a
  supporting module that optimizes by permuting the pushes that belong
  to the original solution. This module was added as an "afterburner"
  in connection with the "Vicinity search" module, and it should not
  be confused for the "Box permutations" module which doesn't limit
  itself to looking at the existing pushes only. The afterburner used
  a simple but also very fast method, trying to reduce the number of
  box-changes: For each sequence of pushes of a single box, it tried
  to find later pushes of the same box that could be grouped together
  with the sequence under investigation. This afterburner has now been
  turned into a more thorough "find optimizations by permuting the
  existing box-push sequences" module. The new module is slower than
  the old one, given that it investigates many more permutations, but
  it still has the advantage that it relatively fast can spot some
  permutation-optimizations that the other modules cannot find, or
  only can find after extensive analysis. Note that permuting the
  existing pushes doesn't decrease the number of pushes, except on
  very rare occasions where a permutation introduces duplicate
  positions. Normally, the only metrics that improve after
  permutations are the other ones, e.g., moves and box-changes. The
  new module is fast enough to work unnoticed for small and
  medium-sized levels. For large levels, you will see status messages
  like "Box-changes optimization: Pushes 123..456" when the new module
  is operating. For people acquainted with the optimizer by Sebastien
  Gouezel it may be of interest to know whether the new module is
  modelled after the "quick-optimize-box-changes" feature found in his
  program. This is not the case; the new module is a completely
  independent work with a sligthly different approach, trading time
  for better results. It has been considered to implement the faster
  method found in Sebastien Gouezel's optimizer, but in the end it was
  decided to aim for more optimizations rather than speed.
. Bugfix (1.373): In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the
  optimizer quality suffered if logging were enabled because the
  deadlock state information wasn't updated correctly. On rare
  occasions this could even make the optimizer terminate with a
  program error.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.384
. Minor changes.

Version 1.383
. Updated the license from GNU GPL version 2 to version 3.
. Bugfix (1.370): In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the
  optimizer module "Vicinity search" could in theory (although highly
  unlikely in practice) corrupt its own data after finding a new
  better solution and cause the optimizer to terminate abnormally.

Version 1.382
. New minor skin feature enhancement: Animations may now contain
  masked images. Previously, animation images had to be opaque,
  otherwise the animation could suffer from a smearing effect, where
  pixels from one frame remained on the screen if the next frame
  didn't cover the same pixels.

Version 1.381
. New minor skin feature enhancement: Floors and goals may now be
  transparent. Floors and goals have always had support for masking
  (i.e., marking parts of the background that should not be overdrawn
  by pixels from the floor image or the goal image), and now
  transparency is supported as well. The new floor options in the
  'Settings' window are "Graphics | Board | Figures | Floor | Image |
  Transparent image" and "Graphics | Board | Figures | Floor | Image |
  Transparency (%)". Similar options exist for the goal image.

Version 1.380
. In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the optimizer modules
  "Global search" and "Box permutations" didn't take a scenario into
  account which best is explained by an example: The player pushes a
  box to the right. Let's say there also is a box above the player
  after the push. In that case, it may happen that the same position
  can be reached via another path which ends with pushing this other
  box upwards. (A drawing helps clarify the situation: The player, a
  box above the player, and another box to the right of the player.)
  These two paths may even have the same metrics, in which case one
  might think that the path doesn't matter. However, this doesn't hold
  because the secondary metrics (e.g., box-changes) for successor-
  positions may differ depending on which of the boxes that was pushed
  as the last one. It was a well-known limitation that prior versions
  didn't take that into account, but now this limitation has been
  lifted by extending the criteria for which positions that are
  considered identical by the optimizer. Box-positions and player-
  positions must match, of course, but now the push-direction for the
  last pushed box leading to a position is also taken into account.
  The result is that the optimizer is more accurate and sometimes
  produce better results. Thanks to Sokobano for providing a
  thorough analysis of several levels, documenting that it would be
  worthwhile to lift the limitation.
. Added new option in the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer:
  "Optimizer fallback strategy enabled/disabled". The fallback
  strategy is the box-permutations method, and previously, it was
  always enabled, meaning there was no way to force the optimizer to
  move on to the next task in a batch run right after, say, the
  vicinity search finished. The only way to limit the optimizer was
  with a time-limit, but then there was no guarantee that the vicinity
  search ran to its completion before the optimizer moved on to the
  next task. Thanks to Ming for noticing the lack of this feature.
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control - Solutions - Allow
  deletion of best solutions in 'Snapshots' window". By default, this
  option is disabled, which also was the behavior in previous
  versions. Sometimes, this option comes in handy. For instance, a
  user may want to discard push-optimal solutions and keep move-
  optimal solutions only. Thanks to Daniel Cielak for bringing this
  up.
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Graphics - Board - Figures -
  Maximum zoom factor (%)". Skins are normally scaled so the level
  fits the window, but some low resolution skins suffer if they are
  enlarged more than, say, 50%.
. Bugfix (1.370): In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the
  optimizer module "Global search" could show misleading status
  information during the search in this scenario: The "optimize-push-
  changes" function found an improvement that exchanged the last push
  on the existing best path with another push from the path. The
  mistake was that the dethroned last push still was flagged as a
  terminal position, so if the search later found a better path to
  that position, then the machinery reacted as if it had found a new
  best path and updated the status field on the screen accordingly. At
  the end of the optimization, the optimizer correctly didn't return a
  new optimized solution unless the search found a solution with
  better metrics than the dethroned position. Thanks to Sokobano
  for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix (1.234): After editing the embedded control-text in a skin-
  image (the text that describes how to load the skin), the editor
  miscalculated how much room there is available in the image for the
  text. The calculation was "Width x Height". The correct formula is
  "Width x Height x Bytes-per-pixel", so the effect of the
  miscalculation was a too low size-limit. For instance, it was 3
  times too low for a 24-bit image. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting
  this bug.
. Bugfix (1.323): The keyboard shortcuts "[Alt]+R" and "F2" opened up
  for editing names of the best solutions in the 'Snapshots' window,
  even though the "Rename" button correctly was disabled when a best
  solution had focus.

Version 1.379
. Changed the button text "Ok" to "OK" throughout the application.
  "Ok" was a deliberate choice because it graphically isn't so
  dominating on the screen, but it turns out that no dictionaries list
  it as a correct spelling. Thanks to Lee J Haywood for pointing this
  out.

Version 1.378
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.
. The "o" in "Goal" was one pixel too narrow in the editor's mouse-
  cursor for the goal drawing-tool.

Version 1.377
. Bugfix (1.375): The promised increase of the vicinity squares limit
  from 50 to 999 was not implemented correctly. The limit was taken
  modulo 256.

Version 1.376
. Minor changes.

Version 1.375
. In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, the "Vicinity search"
  module deliberately had a rather small 50 vicinity squares limit per
  square. This limit has been removed now (or more precisely, it has
  been raised to 999). Thanks to Sokobano for providing empirical
  evidence that the 50 square limit was too restrictive.
. The bugfix/work-around in version 1.374 has been refined so the
  application doesn't shut down in the mentioned scenario. Instead, a
  message-box appears, asking the users to close the 'Tools' window
  before they close the application.

Version 1.374
. Bugfix: The program terminated abnormally with a program error in
  this (rather rare) scenario: Open the 'Tools' window", right-click
  the application's icon on the Windows taskbar, and click
  "Close (Alt+F4)". Interestingly, this looks like a minor bug in
  Windows itself. The menu-item performs 2 different actions depending
  on whether the user clicks it with the mouse or uses the keyboard
  shortcut. The mouse-click closes the application and the keyboard
  shortcut closes the current window, returning to the previous one.
  Thanks to Ming for reporting this bug.

Version 1.373
. In the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer, all improved games
  (typically solutions) are now written to the log-file when logging
  is enabled for the optimizer. This also comes in handy for the
  console application version of YASS. Here it's not always practical
  to specify a time limit or a push count limit, and then the only way
  to terminate the optimizer is by pressing Ctrl+C which aborts
  console applications without giving them a chance to save data. With
  logging enabled, the user can now find any improved games in the
  log-file. Thanks to Ming for this suggestion.

Version 1.372
. Minor changes.

Version 1.371
. Minor changes.

Version 1.370
. New Feature: The accompanying YASS solver and optimizer has a new
  third optimization method, "Vicinity search", which by far is the
  best of the implemented methods. A big thank you to Sebastien
  Gouezel, the inventor of this method, for sharing information on the
  algoritm. By sharing his ideas and insights on the subject, he has
  made a significant and lasting contribution to the Sokoban game
  itself, transcending the implementation of the algorithm in the YASS
  optimizer. The key idea is to permute the positions along the best
  found path, allowing a small number of boxes to move to squares
  within a limited distance from the original position. A second phase
  performs a search that is limited to these permutations, thereby
  narrowing the search down to a manageable size. For people
  acquainted with the original implementation of the method by
  Sebastien Gouezel it may be of interest to know the improvements
  that can be found in YASS. First and foremost, YASS uses less memory
  to accomplish the task because it only saves pushes throughout the
  search. Memory for moves (non-pushing player-steps) are recycled
  when the moves have been expanded. This modification requires
  different data-structures, and the savings depend on the legal
  moves/pushes ratio (not the moves/pushes ratio for a solution).
  This ratio is normally above 4:1 in a Sokoban game, and the savings
  increase as a function of the ratio. By a 4:1 ratio, the savings are
  roughly a 50% reduction of the memory consumption for storing the
  moves and pushes generated during the search. The savings improve
  the method's ability to cope with large levels. To that end, YASS
  also introduces an automatical split of large levels into smaller
  segments. Another improvement is that YASS reports the progress
  during the search, so the user has a chance to decide whether the
  calculation seems worth waiting for. In YASS, all is not lost if
  the search is terminated manually before the search completes. In
  that case, YASS checks whether the partial search contains
  improvements. After having said that this method is better than the
  other implemented methods, is may come as a surprise that with
  default settings, it is the last one that is activated. The
  rationale is that if the user wants to get results quickly, say,
  within a minute or two, then the time is better spent running the
  other methods. Vicinity search takes time, and it first delivers
  results upon completion. Therefore, it's better to begin with the
  other methods which can deliver results instantly when improvements
  are found. For further vicinity search improvements, please see the
  version 1.436 release notes.
. Previously, sorting on columns in the 'Tools' window by clicking
  column headers only sorted in ascending order. Now the sorting
  automatically flips ascending/descending order depending on the
  current state. Thanks to Sokobano for this suggestion.
. It has always been possible to sort solver tasks and optimizer tasks
  in the 'Tools' window on different criterias like level names and
  metrics. A new sort criteria has been added to the palette: "Sort on
  chronological order". To use it, click the column header above the
  row numbers. Thanks to Sokobano for this suggestion.
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.
. The file manager functions Move/Copy/Rename in the 'Open' window
  were more restrictive than necessary about special characters like
  "/" in level names in a collection. Thanks to Sokobano for
  pointing that out.
. Changed texts from "Megabytes" to the new standard "Mebibytes" in
  the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer plugin. Any customized
  settings for transposition table sizes must be re-entered. 
. "Copy selection to clipboard" in the editor always filled the floor
  cells in the level with spaces. Now it uses the same settings as
  "Copy level to clipboard" in the main window and the 'Open' window,
  i.e., the settings "Control | Level format | Copy level to
  clipboard".
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control - Tools - Optimizer -
  Discard dethroned solutions found in the same session". By default,
  this option is enabled, which also was the behavior in previous
  versions. In some cases, however, it may be worthwhile to keep
  optimizer-produced solutions for further processing even after an
  optimizer has found a better solution. Thanks to Sokobano for
  this suggestion.
. The 3 top groupboxes on the solver tabsheet and the optimizer
  tabsheet now keep a customized width from one session to another.
  Previously, their widths were deliberately reset to default values
  at the beginning of a new session. Thanks to Sokobano for pointing
  out that it's better to keep the customized settings.
. Which action to perform when the user issues a right-click with the
  mouse in the main game-playing window has always been customizable.
  The default action "Load selected snapshot from the 'Snapshots'
  window" is now limited to non-solution snapshots only, thereby
  avoiding the confusion that otherwise occured if the currently
  selected snapshot happened to be a solution. Since solutions got
  special treatment so they are loaded in the main window presenting
  the start position rather than their "true" snapshot position which
  is the solved position, the user issuing a right-click would think
  that the right-click had reset the game and not notice that it in
  reality had loaded a solution. In practice, the best way to avoid
  the confusion is probably to let a right-click reset the game in
  this situation.
. New minor feature added to the editor: "Remove redundant walls".
  Internally, the application has had this feature for years, but it
  wasn't available from the editor until now. It can be found in the
  editor's main menu as "Edit | Remove redundant walls".
. Bugfix (1.354): The "Browse..." button for selecting an optimizer
  plugin in the "Optimizer" window had stopped working. The button
  offered selection of a solver plugin, just as the "Browse..." button
  in the 'Solver' window. (As a workaround it was still possible to
  select an optimizer plugin using 'Settings': "Control | Tools | 
  Optimizer | Filename").
. Bugfix (1.351): If the first time the user invoked a solver plugin
  was from the 'Select solver' window (as opposed to the more normal
  method of invoking the plugin from the solver tabsheet in the
  'Tools' window) then the program stopped responding if the
  'Select solver' window had been opened via the "Settings" button in
  the main window, followed by selecting "Control | Tools | Solver |
  Filename". Thanks to "Blue Jim" for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix (1.323): After editing a level in the 'Tools' window, any
  legal solutions and snapshots are preserved provided they still are
  relevant after the editing operations. However, in case there
  weren't any snapshots, but only best solutions for moves and pushes
  respectively, then the solutions didn't show up in the 'Snapshots
  and solutions' window upon return from the 'Tools' window to the
  main window. The solutions were intact, and it was only a matter of
  a missing update of the screen.
. Bugfix: The accompanying YASS optimizer terminated with a program
  error in this (rare) situation: The solution being optimized was a
  non-empty solution for a level with a trivial 0-push solution
  (meaning that all boxes are located at goal squares in the starting
  position), and the optimizer could find a 2-push sequence from the
  beginning of the game which looped back to the start position.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.369
. Improved the automatic skin detection of "Sokoban for Windows" 
  skins slightly.

Version 1.368
. Bugfix (1.353): The 'Open skin' window handles image-based skins as
  well as script-based skins, but the latter had stopped showing up in
  the window. Loading the skins worked correctly, and since the whole
  text-edit area for the scripts was nicely hidden, some may have
  thought that this was what the window was supposed to look like.
  However, the intention is to show the scripts and to offer script
  text-editing facilities in the window.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.367
. Bugfix (1.365): Right-clicking anywhere on the board triggered
  replay of a best solution, not just when the "Solution" button was
  clicked.

Version 1.366
. Changed the release notes slightly, and corrected a few spelling
  errors in the release notes.

Version 1.365
. Right-clicking the "Solution" button in the main window triggers
  replay of the opposite of the normally preferred best solution,
  counting moves and pushes. It's practical that it also replays the
  singular best solution when there aren't two separate best pushes
  and best moves solutions. Thanks to Sokobano for mentioning this.

Version 1.364
. Windows Vista compatibility: All user data like levels and skins
  have moved from the "Program Files" folder to a "My Documents"
  subfolder, where Windows Vista grants the user read/write permission.
  All user data are now located in the folder
  "..\My Documents\Sokoban\Sokoban YASC" and its subfolders, e.g.,
  "..\Levels".
. Windows Vista compatibility: File associations work differently in
  Vista, and therefore, the feature previously found in "Settings" to
  associate ".sok" files and ".xsb" files with the application has
  been removed. Instead, please use the "Default Programs" feature in
  Windows to manage your file associations.
. Windows Vista compatibility: The option "Launch application" after a
  successful installation has been removed because the application
  would inherit the administrator privileges from the installation
  package, something that is frowned upon in Vista. To make up for it,
  the program now adds an icon to the user's desktop for quick access
  to the program.
. Windows Vista compatibility: With antialiased fonts, the transparent
  mode for the subtexts in the statusbar panels like "Moves" and
  "Pushes" doesn't work satisfactory. Therefore, the default has
  changed from transparent to opaque subtexts, and to compensate for
  that, the built-in buttons each have their own specialized subtext
  font color now.
. Windows Vista compatibility: The Vista default window background
  color is now recognized as one of the colors where it's OK for the
  program to use a blue color to highlight some of the panel captions.
. Windows Vista compatibility: Vista has changed the default mouse
  cursor. The arrow head is bigger and the shaft is shorter now. The
  custom-made mouse cursors in Sokoban YASC like "Drag" and all the
  editor cursors have been redrawn accordingly.
. Windows Vista compatibility: A custom-made arrow cursor has
  replaced the default Windows cursor in the main window, i.e., the
  game-playing window. The custom-made arrow cursor is identical to
  the Windows Vista default cursor except for the shadow. The reason
  for the replacement is that otherwise, the mouse cursor makes an
  unpleasant jolt when it changes from the normal arrow cursor to the
  drag cursor. The same problem pestered the compatibility with the
  Windows XP operating system. Here the problem was solved by drawing
  all custom-made cursors so they have the same hot spot as the
  default arrow cursor, but this time this is not enough to avoid
  the problem. The unshadowed custom-made version of the default arrow
  cursor avoids the problem, and in practical use, it doesn't make
  that much difference that it's an unshadowed cursor. The problem can
  still be seen in a less important situation: In the editor, when the
  mouse enters and leaves the editor canvas area. If somebody has an
  explanation and/or a work-around, this information will be highly
  appreciated.
. Windows Vista compatibility: Vista seems to have a bug related to
  flat-styled toolbars, at least when they co-operate with the Delphi
  programming tool. Toolbars may contain separators and dividers
  between the buttons, but Vista draws an unwanted left-justified
  vertical line in both of them. The toolbars must be flat-styled,
  otherwise Windows doesn't draw the drop-down buttons correctly, so
  there is a dilemma here. The toolbar dividers in the 'Tools' window
  have been changed to separators, so the unwanted line acts as a
  stand-in for a divider. This works reasonable well, even though
  the unwanted line doesn't look as good as a real divider.
. The level editor's mouse cursor captions (e.g., "box" and "select")
  have changed color from black to white, thereby making it easier to
  track which drawing tool that currently is selected.
. The main window hides itself when the 'Tools' window is active.
  Previously, the standard Windows feature "Minimize window" was
  useless in the 'Tools' window because the main window would still be
  visible, and since it hadn't focus the user could not minimize that
  too. Thanks to Ming for this suggestion.
. Bugfix (1.363, YASS 2.67): A serious bug had crept into the
  accompanying YASS solver version 2.67 so it falsely labelled some
  levels as unsolvable, e.g., the level "Handmade #17" by Yoshio
  Murase. Moreover, the bug could potentially miss a push-optimal
  solution and falsely label a longer solution as push-optimal. The
  solver had got a tunnel mechanism for the backwards search, similar
  to the tunnel mechanism recently added to the forwards search. A box
  is not allowed to rest on a tunnel square, but the solver must make an
  exception to that rule for a final box position, and by mistake, the
  backwards search tunnel mechanism treated goal positions as final
  positions (just as in a forwards search) instead of the box starting
  positions.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.363
. Bugfix (~1.321, YASS 2.34): On rare occasions, the accompanying YASS
  optimizer terminated abnormally with a program error. The error was
  contained by the YASC host program which showed the error message
  and continued without any further problems.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.362
. Added a new skin by Gerry Wiseman: "AntiqueDesk3".
. The accompanying YASS solver (version 2.66) is now notably better at
  solving simple goal-room themed levels. (Technically, it turned out
  that the solver previously shot itself in the foot with a misguiding
  position evaluation function.) Additionally, dynamically calculated
  deadlocks have been introduced as a supplement to the deadlocks that
  are precalculated when the level is loaded. Furthermore, Matthias
  Meger's elegant tunnel algorithm has been implemented. Overall, the
  improvements amount to approx. 3% more solutions for a large body of
  test levels.
. Bugfix (1.352): If more levels were added to the solver task queue
  using the "+" button while a solver plugin was running, and if the
  plugin found a solution for the currently processed level, then
  that particular solution was lost. The plugin would continue its
  work, handling any remaining levels on the task queue normally.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.361
. Minor changes.

Version 1.360
. The accompanying YASS solver (version 2.64) now falls back to its
  "full-game search" if its first search used the packing-order
  mechanism, and it failed because the transposition table filled up.
  Previously, it was up to the user to disable the packing-order
  mechanism in the settings, and then try solving the level again, but
  in practice, users never notice that this option makes a difference
  to the solver's ability to cope with a level (even though it is
  actually mentioned in the "About..." text).
. Minor changes.

Version 1.359
. Minor changes.

Version 1.358
. Bugfix (1.352): When the user leaves the solver window, any newly
  found solutions are put on the optimizer's task queue, selected for
  optimization. However, when the user closed the 'Tools' window and
  returned to the main window, these new solutions updated the levels
  and were removed from the optimizer's task queue, even though the
  solutions were selected for optimization. Now the levels are updated
  without removing the solutions from the task queue, provided the
  user visits the 'Optimizer' window before returning to the main
  window. There is only a weak justification for this behavior: If
  the users didn't open the optimizer, then they are not interested
  in optimizing these solutions. It's not ideal, and it's bound to
  cause confusion sometimes, but this is how it works.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.357
. Minor text enhancements, e.g., the text appearing on the statusbar
  when a level has been solved has changed from "The level is solved"
  to "The level has been solved". Thanks to Lee J Haywood for
  improving some of my far from perfect English texts.

Version 1.356
. When a solution is loaded from the 'Snapshots and Solutions' window,
  it is now made ready for replay from the beginning. Previously, a
  solution was loaded like any other snapshot, i.e., showing its
  current position which for a solution is the final position.
  Typically, the user is more interested in replaying a solution from
  the beginning than seeing the final position. Thanks to Lee J
  Haywood for mentioning this, thereby confirming that the new
  behavior is the preferable one.
. Added "moves" and "pushes" to the simple solver statistics and
  optimizer statistics.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.355
. One of the modules in the accompanying YASS optimizer is somewhat
  faster now. It's the "Global search" (where the status text shows
  the transposition table size) which has a new trade-off between
  speed and search accuracy, so the module in most cases finds more
  optimizations within a given time limit. Technically, the speed gain
  comes from dampening the cascading updates when a new better path to
  a position has been found. Instead of updating all successors
  immidiately, the updating is delayed until a certain number of
  positions need to be updated. This reduces the number of times that
  cascading updates permeate through the entire game tree.
. Bugfix (1.352): In the solver window and the optimizer window, the
  hint text "Click and drag the mouse to change panel widths" was
  visible at a time where it should have disappeared. The text
  stayed on the screen when the mouse moved away from the gap between
  the panels, and moved to the solver panel or the optimizer panel
  from the left.
. Bugfix (1.240): On rare occasions, the accompanying YASS solver
  reported "Unsolved" where it could report "Unsolvable", i.e., where
  the solver had proved the level was unsolvable.
. For the convenience of program developers, the documentation of the
  "Common Sokoban Plugins Interface" has been added to the source-file
  package. This version of the documentation contains a solver plugin
  specification and an optimizer plugin specification.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.354
. Bugfix (1.283): If the user loaded a skin via the 'Settings' window,
  but otherwise didn't do anything in the window that expanded items
  in its tree view, then nothing happened the first time the user
  clicked the "Browse..." button in the solver window or the optimizer
  window. The button reacted normally when it was clicked again.

Version 1.353
. Bugfix (1.352): Depending on the most recent panel sizes in the
  'Open' window, it could happen that the first time the user
  activated the "Browse.." button in the solver window or the
  optimizer window, the tiled image accompanying the plugin selection
  was clipped by the panel below with the "Settings..." and "About..."
  buttons. It had no effect on the plugin selection, and the image
  would appear correctly the next time the "Browse..." button was
  activated.
. Bugfix (1.302): When the user clicks "Settings..." in the solver
  window or the optimizer window, the application gives the
  accompanying YASS solver and optimizer plugin special treatment so
  the expected tabsheet (with either solver settings or optimizer
  settings) shows up first. This special treatment was only given to
  the default YASS plugin version installed in the "Plugins"
  subfolder, and not to versions installed elsewhere, say, by a
  different application.

Version 1.352
. Added a task queue to the solver window, similar to the task queue
  in the optimizer window. Previously, the solver user-interface only
  allowed solving one level at a time.
. Added a host-side time limit feature for solvers and optimizers,
  meaning that a plugin without an internal time limit feature still
  can be subject to time control. The only requirement for this to
  work is that the plugin supports termination, e.g., when the user
  clicks the "Terminate" button.
. Added a "General settings..." button to the solver window as well as
  the optimizer window, thereby providing quick access to the
  host-side settings. This has gained importance with the introduction
  of the new host-side time limit feature.
. Added a "Combine with [Ctrl] to search for unsolved levels" feature
  to the "Open prior level" and "Open next level" buttons in the
  solver window, similar to the buttons in the main window.
. Added simple statistics to the solver window and the optimizer
  window. By default, statistics are disabled. The statistics can be
  enabled in the 'Settings' window using "Control | Tools | Solver |
  Statistics enabled" and "Control | Tools | Optimizer | Statistics
  enabled". To access the statistics, use the new "Edit | Statistics"
  item on the main menu in the 'Tools' window. This new menu item is
  only visible when the statistics are enabled.
. Feature enhancement: Previously, if a level was new or had been
  modified, and the user clicked "Import from clipboard", then the
  application asked the user to save the level before the import took
  place. This behavior was unpractical and a nuisance if the
  clipboard only contained solutions and snapshots for the currently
  loaded level. Now importing solutions and snapshots from the
  clipboard doesn't require the new or modified level to be saved
  beforehand.
. Now the user can adjust the panel sizes in the 'Open' window, e.g.,
  to match personal preferences, and to make file-navigation easier by
  having a better balance between the sizes of the different panels.
  Previously, the 'Open' window layout was static in the sense that
  the size of all panels (e.g., the file-selection panel and the
  thumbnail level preview panel) was decided by the program The area
  reserved for files and folders was always of a fixed, small size,
  even when the window size was increased, and when the window was
  maximized. Therefore, file-navigation was cramped and less than
  optimal.
. For consistency with panel resizing in the 'Open' window, resizing
  panels in the 'Tools' window is now also based on clicking-and-
  dragging the gaps between the panels. Previously, the user grapped
  the interior of a panel and dragged it with the mouse.
. Bugfix: An error message appeared in this scenario: Import a level
  from the clipboard. Start a second import from the clipboard. Answer
  "No" to the question "Do you want to save the new level?". Now start
  importing from the clipboard for a third time. At this time, the
  error message "Cannot focus a disabled or invisible window"
  appeared. The error message didn't cause the import to fail; the
  message just should not be there. Thanks to Matthias Meger for 
  reporting this bug.
. In the 'Tools' window, newly found solutions (created by a solver or
  an optimizer) are first added to their respective levels at the time
  the user returns to the main window. Therefore, it can happen that
  old best solutions appear on the optimizer's task queue with names
  like "Best Solution" after they have been dethroned by newly found
  (but not yet registered) solutions. The application already had the
  logic to rename the old best solutions on the task queue in a few
  straightforward situations, e.g., when an optimizer improved on an
  existing best solution, but a lot of other scenarios weren't handled.
  Now the logic has been extended to handle the situation gracefully a
  lot more often. However, it is still far from being perfect. For
  instance, clicking "+" to add all best solutions from the currently
  opened collection to the task queue still hasn't a guard against
  wrong names for dethroned best solutions.
. Bugfix: The wrong error message appeared in this scenario:
  Import a level from the clipboard. Start importing a solution or
  snapshot from the clipboard. Answer "No" to the question "Do you
  want to save the new level?". At this time, the message "No levels
  found in the file "..\..\*new*" appeared. The correct error message
  is "The clipboard doesn't contain any levels". (It only contains
  solutions and/or snapshots at this time, no Sokoban boards.) Thanks
  to Matthias Meger for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix: On rare occasions, the accompanying YASS solver and
  optimizer plugin got caught up in a very time-consuming
  precalculation of deadlocks, where the plugin didn't respond,
  meaning the user could not terminate the plugin normally and
  continue the session. Instead, the user had to close the application
  in order to stop the plugin. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this
  bug.
. Bugfix (1.188): The board belonging to the currently loaded level in
  the 'Tools' window could be destroyed or overwritten by a board from
  another level and extended to maximum size with wall-filled rows and
  columns in this scenario: In the 'Tools' window, select 'Open
  level'. Now the 'Open' window appears. If the window settings was
  set to 'Show solutions', and the currently loaded file was a level
  collection (as it typically is the case), and the 'Open' window was
  closed by choosing 'Cancel' rather than 'Ok', then the board in the
  'Tools' window was overwritten by the board from the most recently
  calculated level in the 'Open' window's level list. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.351
. Minor changes.

Version 1.350
. Minor changes in the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer.

Version 1.349
. Minor changes in the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer.

Version 1.348
. Minor changes.

Version 1.347
. Bugfix (1.345): The final polishing of the optimizer plugin
  interface specification had an unwanted and impractical consequence
  for the handling of the items on the optimizer's task queue. If a
  solution on the task queue had the optimization mode 'Settings', the
  mode changed to the actual value used by the plugin (e.g., "pushes
  and moves") at the time optimization of the solution started. The
  optimization mode should remain "Settings", so a later global change
  of the plugin settings still can affect a whole group of solutions
  on the task queue.

Version 1.346
. Bugfix: In the 'Tools' window, if a level was saved after it had
  been changed, then copying the level to the clipboard worked
  correctly except that the level name was wrong. The level
  collection name appeared instead of the level name.

Version 1.345
. Internally (users won't notice any difference), some changes have
  been made to bring Sokoban YASC and the accompanying YASS optimizer
  into compliance with the current version of the "Common Sokoban
  Plugins Interface Specification".
. Bugfix (1.302): If the accompanying YASS optimizer didn't find any
  improvements, it could on rare occasions return a solution with the
  same number of moves and pushes, but with slightly worse secondary
  metrics, such as one extra boxline. Thanks to Sokobano for
  reporting this bug.
. Bugfix (1.302): During batch processing of solutions on the
  optimer's task queue, the name of the currently processed solution
  also showed up in the solver window, which shares most of its
  machinery with the optimizer window.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.344
. Added new options to 'Settings': "Control - Tools - Solver - Add
  date to solution notes" and "Control - Tools - Optimizer - Add date
  to solution notes". By default, these options are disabled.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.343
. Bugfix (1.342): A bug had crept into the accompanying YASS optimizer
  so it only used one of its search strategies (search-by-slice).

Version 1.342
. Bugfix: If the accompanying YASS optimizer didn't find any
  improvements, it could on rare occasions return a copy of the
  existing solution instead of just reporting that no improvements
  were found. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this bug.

Version 1.341
. Improved the accompanying YASS optimizer slightly.

Version 1.340
. Improved the accompanying YASS optimizer.
. Added new, minor feature: Copy continuation moves to the clipboard
  (Ctrl+B). After browsing back and forth in a game, this copies the
  moves after the current position to the clipboard. This feature may
  come in handy for combining the best moves from different snapshots.
. Bugfix: Using the keyboard shortcuts Ctrl+S ("Save") and Ctrl+A
  ("Save as...") had the side-effect that the replay mode switched
  from replaying combined moves to single-stepping, which normally
  should be activated only as long as the user presses the [Ctrl]
  key. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.339
. The accompanying YASS optimizer now has a third optimization type,
  "pushes only", supplementing the "moves, pushes", and "pushes, 
  moves" optimization types. "Pushes only" is often faster than the
  two others because there are fewer occasions where "pushes only"
  must reconsider positions, and because it doesn't use the secondary
  metrics for tie-breaking. Furthermore, it may find push-optimizations
  that go unnoticed by the "pushes, moves" optimization.

Version 1.338
. Bugfix (1.337): The previous bugfix in the accompanying YASS
  optimizer made the optimizer miss a considerable number of
  optimizations. They are now back in place, so the overall quality of
  the optimizer should have increased now.

Version 1.337
. Bugfix (1.332): There was a logical flaw in the accompanying YASS
  optimizer so its "search-by-slice" module didn't find all the
  optimations it was supposed to. Thanks to Sokobano for spotting
  and reporting this problem and for providing test material that made
  it possible to locate and rectify the problem. Although the logic
  has been rectified, this does not entail that the optimizer now
  finds the previously missing optimizations within a reasonable time,
  so the overall quality of the optimizer has probably not improved;
  in fact there are indications that the quality sometimes
  deteriorates. Further experiments and tests are called for.

Version 1.336
. The accompanying YASS optimizer is faster now. Previously, the
  control scheme launched the search-by-slice module more often, but
  experience has shown that it in most cases is better to spend the
  time using the search-full-game strategy as long as it finds any
  improvements.
. Bugfix (1.332): The accompanying YASS optimizer was again vulnerable
  to input solutions with circular push sequences, in which case the
  optimizer terminated with an error message. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.335
. Bugfix (1.302): If a status text from a running optimizer was so
  wide that it exceeded the window width, then it caused flicker when
  the mouse hovered over the status text.

Version 1.334
. The accompanying YASS optimizer now provides more information about
  its internal state during optimization. This makes it easier for the
  experienced user to decide when to stop the optimizer.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.333
. Bugfix (1.323): After using the popup menu-item "Delete all
  snapshots" in the snapshots window, any best solutions remaining in
  the window were shown with transparent floors, even if the skin in
  use had opaque floors. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this bug.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.332
. Improved the accompanying YASS optimizer.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.331
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.
. Changed some of the keyboard shortcuts in the main window, so the
  shortcut to "Show solution" again is Ctrl+L "as it should be", and
  so "Tools" has the shortcut Ctrl+T. The new scheme is mnemonically
  and ergonomically better than the old one, and the only small
  disadvantage is that the direct shortcut to the editor now is Ctrl+D
  instead of Ctrl+E, but Ctrl+E is the only one available for
  "Settings".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.330
. Minor changes.

Version 1.329
. Bugfix (1.323): When the option to add secondary score metrics to
  the solution titles is enabled, this should apply to new solutions
  as well as old solutions. However, titles of old solutions to the
  first level loaded when the application is launched was only updated
  with primary metrics and not secondary metrics.
. Bugfix (1.302): Sometimes, the screen was not updated correctly
  after using drag-and-drop to move an item in the optimizer's task
  queue. The items on the queue were all right, but if the move had
  caused the lines to scroll, then the intermediate items appeared in
  the line after their real position. Next time an item received focus,
  it would show up correctly again.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.328
. Added support for multi-monitor computers. Thanks to Sokobano for
  bringing this up, and for testing it.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.327
. Added new options to 'Settings': "Control - Tools - Solver - Add
  plugin name to solution titles" and "Control - Tools - Optimizer -
  Add plugin name to solution titles". Previously, the plugin name was
  always added to the titles of solutions found by a solver or an
  optimizer. This makes the titles rather long, and even though it may
  be handy having the solution's origin readily available in the
  title, it's not strictly necessary since the origin also is added
  to the solution's notes.

Version 1.326
. Bugfix: Importing a new best solution from the clipboard correctly
  dethroned the old best solution, and the old best solution was also
  saved as a normal snapshot as it should be, when this feature is
  enabled in 'Settings', but any notes attached to the old best
  solution were lost. Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this bug.
. Bugfix (1.136): Importing a series of moves from the clipboard
  which concatenated to the current game state formed a new best
  solution correctly created the new best solution, but the dethroned
  old best solution was not saved, no matter what the settings was for
  saving dethroned best solutions.

Version 1.325
. Minor changes.

Version 1.324
. Solutions produced by solver plugins and optimizer plugins now again
  contain the plugin name in the solution's name, e.g.,
  "Solution 102/53 (YASS 2.43 Optimizer)". (It was deliberately
  omitted in the previous version where the plugin name only appeared
  in the solution's notes, but it turns out to be handy having it in
  the solution name too.)

Version 1.323
. The best solutions for the currently loaded level are now listed on
  the 'Snapshots' window. In previous versions, the only place in the
  main window where the statistics for the best solutions could be
  seen was when the mouse hovered over the 'Solution' button. Listing
  the best solutions on what now is called the 'Snapshots and
  Solutions' window is intuitively more clear, and it makes it easier
  to find them, e.g., for level management tasks. Thanks to Sokobano
  for this suggestion.
. When the best solutions are listed on the snapshots list, their
  names become visible and more important. Therefore, solution name
  templates have been added to the settings. See the section
  'Graphics | Snaphots and solutions | Texts' in the 'Settings'
  window.
. The level size limit in the accompanying YASS solver and optimizer
  plugin is back at 50x50 squares instead of 30x30 squares.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.322
. Bigfix: If the currently selected snapshot in the snapshots window
  was identical to the current game position except for secondary game
  metrics (e.g., boxlines), then clicking "save snapshot" didn't save
  a new snapshot but merely focused the existing snapshot on the list.
  Now the decision whether to create a new snapshot, or focus the
  existing one, encompasses a comparison of the secondary metrics.
  Thanks to Sokobano for reporting this issue.

Version 1.321
. Improved the accompanying YASS optimizer plugin. It is still not as
  good as some of the other available optimizers, but this latest
  improvement is a notable step forward.
. The accompanying YASS solver and optimizer plugin now handles it
  gracefully, if the specified size of the transposition table exceeds
  the available memory. Instead of rejecting the task with an error
  message, the plugin now tries to perform the task with whatever
  memory it can get.

Version 1.320
. Added support for bundling translations of the online help with the
  installation package. The translated text must be a file named
  "Sokoban-*.rtf", it must be installed in the application data
  folder, and it must have a newer file creation date than the
  application. 

Version 1.319
. Bugfix (1.302): With Windows "Small fonts" settings, the checkboxes
  for each task in the optimizer window didn't show up as elegantly as
  intended. For some unknown reason, they here reserve a slightly
  bigger drawing area than the checkbox in the column header, and
  therefore they had a different alignment. Moreover, the extra size
  caused the checkbox in the selected row to appear with a background-
  colored small frame around the actual checkbox. Now the whole area
  outside the actual checkbox is filled with the highlight color, as
  intended.

Version 1.318
. Internally, the program is now prepared to move all application data
  files from the program folder to the user's "My Documents" folder.
  This is a small step towards compatibility with Windows Vista (r),
  where users normally aren't logged on as administrators, meaning
  they cannot save data (e.g., levels) in the program folder. The
  transfer is, however, not in production yet because the file
  virtualization mechanism in Windows Vista can make the program work
  as usual, with its data files in the program folder. Later, it may
  be decided to avoid the dependency of the virtualization and
  physically transfer the files to "My Documents".
. Bugfix (1.303): Optimizers can run in the background while the user
  continues normal game-play in the main window. However, that had
  stopped working, so if an optimizer finished the calculation while
  the user was playing in the main window (as opposed to looking at
  the progress in the optimizer window), then the optimizer results
  weren't imported, and they blocked further attempts to optimize
  the affected solutions for the rest of the session.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.317
. Added new default skin options to the menu in the 'Settings' window:
  "Skins | Load default skin | Yellow crates" and "Skins | Load
  default skin | Brick walls". 

Version 1.316
. Minor changes.

Version 1.315
. Added new option in 'Settings': "Control | Solutions | Include
  secondary metrics in solution button hint".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.314
. Added a "fill selected area" feature to the level editor. The
  options are: fill with walls, floors, goals, boxes, boxes on goals,
  and a wall border.
. Bugfix (1.302): The program terminated abnormally (or rather didn't
  terminate) with an error message in this scenario: A solver plugin
  had been activated, and an optimizer plugin was running at the time
  the user tried to exit the program. After this error message, the
  only way to terminate and exit the program was by using Windows Task
  Manager, or by restarting Windows.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.313
. Bugfix (1.312): If the YASS optimizer didn't find any other
  optimizations than trivial repetitions in the original solution,
  then the optimizer didn't perform these optimizations.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.312
. Bugfix (1.302): The YASS optimizer rejected solutions with one or
  more repetitions and terminated abnormally with a program error
  message.

Version 1.311
. The built-in solutions in the "du Peloux" collection have been
  optimized.

Version 1.310
. Bugfix (1.302): The optimizer sometimes terminated with the error
  message "TTPurge: Internal error". Thanks to Sokobano for
  reporting this bug. 

Version 1.309
. Substituted the walltype term "Single walls" by the better "Tiled
  walls" throughout the application. Thanks to Ming for this idea.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.308
. Minor changes.

Version 1.307
. Minor changes.

Version 1.306
. In the snapshots window, the popup menu now offers copying the moves
  for the selected snapshot to the clipboard. Thanks to Sokobano for
  this suggestion.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.305
. Feature enhancement: Load default skin with tiled walls as opposed
  to the default seamless walls. The option can be found in the
  'Settings' window, where the menu now has the new line:
  "Skins | Load default skin | Seamless walls". Previously, the user
  had to find this option buried deep down in the settings options,
  but tiled walls may be used more frequently than originally
  envisaged. Therefore, it is convenient to have quick and easy
  access to them via the menu. Thanks to Ming and Sokobano for this
  suggestion.

Version 1.304
. Bugfix (1.302): The YASS optimizer plugin versions 2.34 and 2.35
  terminated with an error message about an internal error when the
  plugin optimized a level with forced initial pushes. (Ironically,
  the bug was in the control code, not the productive code.)

Version 1.303
. Bugfix (1.302): In the optimizer window, all newly found optimized
  solutions are collected on the task-queue until the user either
  closes the window or opens or saves a level. At this time the
  program "decides" what to do with the newly found solutions. When a
  solution had been optimized in successive steps and thereby had
  added several intermediate solutions to the task-queue, the program
  deliberately didn't save the intermediate solutions because they
  typically have no interest after a better solution has been found.
  There is, however, the special case where an intermediate solution
  and the further optimized solution happen to be the best-moves
  solution and the best-pushes solution respectively, in which case
  both of them should be saved. Internally, it would be impractical to
  check for this situation, so instead the new scheme merely covers
  the special case. Now intermediate solutions are only discarded if
  the improved solution is better than, or equal to the old one,
  counting moves as well as pushes.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.302
. New feature: Optimizer plugins. Optimizers are handled much like
  solvers in that they are pluginable tools and may run in the
  background while you continue playing the game. The user interface
  for the optimizers is located in the 'Tools' window. The
  accompanying YASS solver plugin has been upgraded with a new
  optimizer module which is used as default optimizer in Sokoban
  YASC.
. Feature enhancement of "Optimize moves between pushes": In normal
  game-play, player paths are always guaranteed to be optimal now
  (with the exception of some types of player-jumps in reverse mode).
  Previously, the program had a weaker function. Moves entered using
  the keyboard were only optimized for simple back and forth moves,
  and mouse-moves, e.g., from a drag-and-drop operation, were not
  perfectly optimized either. Optimization only took place if the
  player walked over a previously visited square.
. Added support for SuperSoko skins. However, please note that they
  don't include the player, hence, all SuperSoko skins use the
  default player. 
. Added support for SokoStation4 skins.
. The pathfinders for player moves, box moves, and box legal moves
  have been overhauled. The new versions are much faster and can
  handle levels up to 125 x 125 squares. It's only in extreme cases,
  like a very large empty board, that the improvements are noticable
  with the current 50 x 50 board limit, but the added efficiency and
  the smaller temporary work areas are crucial if the limit is 
  increased later.
. Increased the game size limit from 65000 to 100000 moves, and the
  box limit from 500 to 1000 boxes. (Version 1.467 increased the box
  limit to 1200.)
. Internally, the program is now capable of handling boards up to
  110 x 110 squares with up to 5000 boxes. However, this is not in
  production because the added memory footprint is considerable (5 MB,
  completely wasted for all but the very few extremely big levels).
  Therefore, this feature better wait until 1 GB memory is the
  absolute minimum one can expect to find in a computer.
. The level-file reader now fully strips any leading email quotation
  marks, i.e., ">" characters. Previously, only boards and moves
  discarded leading ">" characters, but notes and titles kept them.
. The file format description of "run-length encoded boards spanning
  multiple lines" has improved, thanks to Eric Sunshine.
. Minor feature enhancement: As usual, the secondary metrics are only
  visible when the mouse is over the primary metrics, but previously,
  the secondary metrics disappeared after using the mousewheel to
  undo/redo moves, even if the mouse still hovered over the primary
  metrics at the time the operation completed. Now the secondary
  metrics reappear in that situation, with the new values, of course.
. Added new option to 'Settings': "Control | Level file format |
  Copy to clipboard | Floor fill character". The choices are "-"
  (hyphen) and "_" (underscore). Whether the fill character is used,
  or the floors are left blank, depends on the neighbouring "Fill
  floor?" setting. Previously, the only alternative to a blank floor
  was an underscore.
. To improve readability, this version introduces separate default
  font sizes for low resolution screens and high resolution screens.
  Sokoban YASC was originally developed with a 1024x768 screen in
  mind, but that is quite dated by now. The default font size in the
  main game playing window is now 10 points if the screen width is
  1280 or more, while screens with a lower resolution keep the old 8
  points default size.
. Changed the release notes font size from 8 to 10 points. This makes
  the text more readable on high-resolution screens.
. Bugfix (1.299): Contrary to what was listed as a small enhancement
  in version 1.299, the first non-empty square in a board row was not
  allowed to be a box on a goal square instead of a wall. This
  relaxation of the file format now works as promised.
. Bugfix (1.283): If a solver plugin found a solution for a
  maximum-sized level, the program crashed and terminated abnormally.
. Bugfix (1.254): The program stopped responding after these steps: In
  'Tools' window, maximize the window and select "More settings..." in
  the menu. Make some modifications and click "Apply" to update the
  settings.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.301
. Minor changes.

Version 1.300
. The level loader has been overhauled so it loads large collections
  much faster. For small collections with less than 1000 levels the
  difference is negligible, but for large collections with, say, 20000
  levels, the speed improvement is dramatic. For instance, what used
  to take 2.5 minutes may now only take 10 seconds. (It was not the
  actual loading of the levels that took so long time. The culprit
  was the duplicate names check which didn't scale well.)
. The 'Settings' window now provides clipboard import/export of the
  settings. The clipboard interchange is, however, limited to the
  settings text only. Any external files, e.g., sounds and images,
  referenced from the settings are not included.
. The file format description has a more elaborate description of
  run-length encoded boards spanning multiple lines.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.299
. The file format now encompasses run-length encoded boards spanning
  multiple lines.
. The file format now allows board rows to start with boxes on goals.
  Earlier versions only allowed boards to have walls as the first item
  in each row.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.298
. Exporting levels in run-length encoded format now (again) by default
  uses hyphens instead of underscores to represent floors.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.297
. Bugfix (1.294): The file-reader could not cope with levels named
  "#1", "#2" ... anymore because the new support for run-length
  encoded boards had a logical bug regarding lines ending with a
  number. The program entered an infinite loop and stopped responding
  to any user-commands.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.296
. After consulting George Petrov, author of YSokoban, the run-length
  encoded export format is back at using underscores as default to
  represent floors. Whether to use underscores or hyphens is an option
  in 'Settings':
  "Control | Miscellaneous | Run-length encoding: Floor".

Version 1.295
. The export of levels in run-length encoded format now uses hyphens
  as default to represent floors. Previous versions had underscores as
  default setting and hyphens and an option that could be selected
  in 'Settings'.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.294
. New feature: Levels may be exported in run-length encoded format.
  This new feature is available from the menu in the 'Open' window.
  See the online help for keyboard shortcuts available in the main
  window. At the same time, importing run-length encoded levels has
  been made an integrated part of the level-reader, so no special
  actions are required by the user for loading levels in this format.
. Bugfix (1.283): In case no solvers were registered, the program
  crashed with a stack overflow when the new solver window was
  activated. The YASS solver is installed automatically with the
  program and cannot be removed from the list of registered solvers,
  so this problem could not happen in normal use, but only if somebody
  accidentally or maliciously deleted YASS from the disk.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.293
. Minor changes.

Version 1.292
. Minor changes.

Version 1.291
. Bugfix (1.289): In the new solver window, the keyboard shortcut
  'Ctrl+S' was overbooked, at least according to the button hint texts
  shown in the status bar. 'Ctrl+S' triggers 'Save game' and the
  button hint text for 'Restart game' now correctly mentions [Home] as
  keyboard shortcut.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.290
. The replay speed trackbar in the solver window has been replaced by
  a custom made track bar instead of the previously used standard
  Windows control.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.289
. New feature: The solver window now has its own 'Replay' feature,
  meaning you can replay a solution here right after a solver has
  found a solution. In previous versions, it was necessary to return
  to the main window and replay the solution there.
. Bugfix (1.283): The menu option 'Open..' in the solver window was
  inactive. It was meant to have the same effect as clicking the
  'Browse...' button which worked correctly.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.288
. Bugfix (1.283): Clicking the "Solver" button in the main window
  while a solver was active resulted in a misplaced error message,
  saying that the solver was active and should be stopped before
  another solver could be selected.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.287
. Bugfix (1.283): When the solver-window was launched for the first
  time directly from the main window using the keyboard shortcut
  Ctrl+Q, the thumbnail view of the board was not shown properly. It
  didn't use all the available area.

Version 1.286
. Bugfix (1.285): After the bugfix in 1.285, the editor history was
  cleared each time the user returned from the 'Tools' window to the
  main window.

Version 1.285
. Bugfix (1.283): Solutions found by a solver could sometimes be lost
  if they had been found using the new solver-interface in the 'Tools'
  window. It could happen if the user manually saved the level to disk
  from the 'Tools' window (as opposed to letting the main window save
  the level automatically later), and if there were no further
  activities on the level before exiting the program or before loading
  another level.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.284
. Made a few rearrangements of the keyboard shortcuts for the main
  window so  the the letter 'L' became available for the new 'Tools'
  button that replaced the 'Edit' button in version 1.283. Now Alt+L
  and Ctrl+L open the 'Tools' window.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.283
. Added a new user-interface for the solver-plugins. Solvers are now
  an integrated part of the 'Tools' window, together with the level
  editor.
. During installation, any solvers found in the Sokoban++
  solver-folder are added to the list of solvers for this application
  too.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.282
. Bugfix (1.63): If a level was solved backwards, the program crashed
  if the user took back some moves and then choosed ""Redo all" to
  replay the moves leading to the backwards solution. (Technically,
  there was a stack overflow caused by large temporary work areas for
  both the replay function and the conversion of the backward
  solution.)
. Minor changes.

Version 1.281
. The default wall image has been upgraded to a seamless wall instead
  of a single-cell wall. The standard skin by "Games 4 Brains"
  (website: http://www.games4brains.de) has always been elegant and
  beautiful, and this enhancement makes it even better.
. The built-in solutions in the "GRIGoRusha" collection have been
  improved by the YASS optimizer.
. The built-in solutions in the "Yoshio" collection have been improved
  by the YASS optimizer.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.280
. The built-in solutions in the "GRIGoRusha" collection have been
  improved by the YASS optimizer.
. Bugfix (1.279): After editing the text stored in a skin, the image
  section rectangle remained visible on the screen after leaving the
  edit-mode. This only occurred for the currently loaded skin, and it
  only affected the visual display, not the skin.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.279
. Changed the board rendering logic slightly so skins with seamless
  walls can have transparent floors. Previous versions only had full
  support for transparent floors for skins with single-image walls.
. Bugfix: If the user resized the 'Open' window while selecting a
  section of an image for, say box tiles or wall tiles, then the user
  had to do the selection again; otherwise, the whole image was
  selected.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.278
. Increased the somewhat arbitrary file-size limit for skin-scripts to
  2 megabytes in order to handle large "Sokoban for Windows" scripts
  with embedded background-images as well as the ordinary board-tile
  images, e.g., the "NightShift3" skin.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.277
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Added optimal settings for importing the Sokofan skins "Chibi" and
  "Green Metallic".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.276
. The button glyphs in the editor window have been polished, thanks to
  Gerry Wiseman.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.275
. The accompanying illustrations for the settings "Music", "Sound",
  and "Solver" have been polished, thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. The default animation speed for "Do move" and "Undo move" have
  changed from 50/25 to 25/20 milli seconds respectively. The
  rationale is that the higher speed is a better compromise between
  playability and visual feedback, even though a person completely
  new to Sokoban will find it harder to follow what's going on.
  However, users can always adjust the speed in 'Settings'.

Version 1.274
. The accompanying illustrations for the settings "Music", "Sound", 
  and "Solver" have been polished, thanks to Gerry Wiseman.

Version 1.273
. The accompanying illustration for the solver settings have been
  polished, thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.272
. The level reader now handles the email convention to use leading '>'
  characters for quotations. The reader ignores them before boards as
  well as solutions.
. New feature: The 'Open' window has the new menu item "Create
  levels from solutions on the clipboard". Internally, the program
  has had the code for years, but until now, the users haven't had
  access to this feature.
. The "Show legal moves" feature now handles skins with near-black
  pixels much better. "Show legal moves" have always had a problem
  with near-black pixels. Internally, the program uses black to denote
  transparent pixels, and after scaling and other image manipulations,
  near-black pixels risked being interpreted as transparent. This
  dilemma cannot be fully eliminated, but most skins show up
  correctly now, e.g., the Sokofan skin "Sokoban 97.ssk".
. The built-in solutions in the "Holland" collection have been
  improved by the YASS optimizer.
. The built-in solutions in the "Skinner" collection have been
  improved by the YASS optimizer.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.271
. The file conversion of SokoMind levels to the "Common Sokoban File
  Format" have been improved. In prior versions, the conversion didn't
  include solutions if the SokoMind user hadn't entered a proper
  username. Now the conversion finds the solutions anyway. 
  Additionally, the solution names are now decorated with the number
  of moves and pushes, e.g., "Solution 1234/567".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.270
. The built-in solutions in the "Skinner" collection have been
  improved by the YASS optimizer.
. Bugfix (1.241): When a solver finished its work on a level, the
  caption in the 'Open' window was updated accordingly, even when the
  window currently was in use for another task, e.g., for opening a
  level or loading a skin.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.269
. The built-in solutions in the "YASGen" collection have been
  improved by the YASS optimizer.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.268
. Bugfix (1.262): A typo had crept into the caption
  "Sokoban - Settings" in the 'Settings' window.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.267
. Added new option to 'Settings':
  "Control | Snapshots | Include secondary metrics in titles". When
  it's enabled, snapshots and solutions include all 5 metrics in the
  title, i.e.,
  "moves/pushes/box lines/box changes/pushing sessions". By default,
  this option is disabled, and the titles only include the 2 primary
  metrics, i.e., "moves/pushes".
. Changed the default score metrics weights so box-lines are more
  heavily penalized.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.266
. Added optimal settings for importing Gerry Wiseman's "SokoGems" skin
  from the "Sokoban for Windows" clone by Bjoern Kaellmark.

Version 1.265
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.

Version 1.264
. Minor changes, e.g., changing hint-texts back to 'Restart game'
  instead of 'Reset game'.

Version 1.263
. "Reset game" is a new third option for "Right-click action", 
  together with the 2 previously defined options "Load snapshot if
  any, else reset game", and "Undo move".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.262
. Added a new skin by Gerry Wiseman: "SokoGems".
. The "NightShift3" skin by Gerry Wiseman has been replaced by a new
  version.
. The built-in solutions in the "Haywood" collection have been
  optimized.
. Bugfix: In the 'Open' window, the menu item "Copy level to clipboard
  (Ctrl+C)" was disabled if the directory listbox had control (as
  opposed to the file listbox or the collection listbox).
. Bugfix (1.240): It's not mandatory for solver-plugins to use
  lowercase and uppercase letters for moves and pushes respectively,
  but Sokoban YASC didn't accept lowercase-only solutions.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.261
. Minor changes.

Version 1.260
. Minor changes.

Version 1.259
. Bugfix (1.257): A minor cosmetic error had crept in: In the
  'Settings' window, a part of the sound-image illustration was
  visible during image-selection (e.g., main window background image)
  as long as no image was selected. 

Version 1.258
. The "NightShift3" skin by Gerry Wiseman has been replaced by a new
  version.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.257
. Thanks to Gerry Wiseman, the settings for "Music", "Sound", and
  "Solver" are now accompanied by 3 new illustrations.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.256
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Bugfix (1.254): After use of the new 'Apply' button in the
  'Settings' window, the main window didn't update the graphics
  accordingly if the 'Settings' window was closed by selecting
  'Cancel'. The new settings were saved correctly but in order to
  update the screen with any graphical changes, it was necessary to
  re-open the 'Settings' window and close it by selecting 'Ok'.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.255
. Converting "Sokoban for Windows" level files and solution files:
  Prior versions only converted one solution per level. Now the
  conversion handles multiple solutions for each level.

Version 1.254
. Added an "Apply" button to the 'Settings' window so it's possible to
  save the current settings and continue editing/viewing the settings.
  Prior versions only had the "Ok" button for saving, but it also
  closes the window.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.253
. Added minor graphical improvements for computers using Windows'
  small fonts, which is the default setting. (Most users probably
  don't know that large fonts exist, and that large fonts provide
  better readability for normal use of the computer.)
. Minor changes.

Version 1.252
. When the mouse points to the area above the "Open" button in the
  main window, then the name of the currently opened level collection
  is shown in the statusbar.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.251
. Bugfix (1.241): There was a special situation where the YASS
  solver-plugin falsely reported that a level was unsolvable (instead
  of just stating that the solver didn't find a solution): If the
  shortest solution for a level exceeded the solver's depth-limit
  and/or push-count limit (from 'Settings'), and the solver had enough
  memory to perform an exhaustive search of all positions below the
  limits.
. Bugfix (1.199): Actually, this is more a work-around than a bugfix
  because the reason for the problem is unknown and unsolved. Since
  1.199, the "Search prior/next unsolved level" feature hasn't worked
  properly. For some strange unknown reason, searching through a large
  number of levels frequently reported a runtime error deep inside
  Windows itself. The program continued working as normal after the
  failed search, so no harm was done. With the new work-around, the
  search seems to work again.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.250
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.

Version 1.249
. Minor changes.

Version 1.248
. Minor skin import enhancement: The Sokofan skin format recently
  introduced seamless walls based on as little as 4 images when the
  walls connect left and right only, i.e., not up and down. Now
  Sokoban YASC handles these skins correctly.

Version 1.247
. Bugfix (1.241): When the solver window was opened from the main
  window (as opposed to opening it from the 'Settings' window), the
  program didn't remember the most recently used solver from one
  session to another. Additionally, leaving the solver window by
  selecting "Cancel" kept the currently selected solver instead of
  restoring the original selection.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.246
. The specification of the "Common Sokoban Solver Plugin Interface" is
  ready now. This means, that the accompanying solver YASS 2.29 and
  its later versions can work with all programs supporting these
  solver-plugins, e.g., Sokoban++. (The specification later changed to
  a general "Common Sokoban Plugins Interface", encompassing more
  plugin types, e.g., optimizers.)

Version 1.245
. Bugfix (1.241): When a solver finds a solution that isn't better
  than already found solutions, the newly found solution is put on the
  snapshot list. If the level was edited later in the same session,
  then all of its solutions and snapshots were deleted, even in
  situations where they normally would be preserved, that is, when the
  editing didn't affect the solutions and the snapshots.

Version 1.244
. Minor changes.

Version 1.243
. Prior versions had a single enabled/disabled setting for the player
  animations and the box animations in a skin. Now there are separate
  settings for using the animations to highlight legal moves and to
  show a solved game. The new options are found in the section
  "Control | Solutions | Animation" in the 'Settings' window.
. Skins with a directional player and with a player-animation for a
  single direction only: This animation is now used for
  solution-animations only (not for highlighting legal moves), thereby
  enhancing the playability for these skins.
. Animation options in the 'Settings' window have been renamed (back)
  from "Highlight animation" to "Animation" (see 1.176). In order to
  re-activate any animations in the skin you currently is using, you
  need to reload it.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.242
. Bugfix (1.241): Sometimes, a solver running in the background messed
  up the board display in the main window when the solver returned a
  solution to the currently loaded level. It was only the display that
  was affected, the game itself was intact.
. Bugfix (1.241): The skin image-text-editor had stopped working
  properly, or more precisely, its left/top/width/height spin-edits
  for accurate positioning didn't show up anymore. 

Version 1.241
. The provisional support for solver plugins is ready now. To select a
  solver, open the 'Settings' window and select
  "Control | Solver | Filename". To open the selected solver from the
  main window, middle-click the 'Solution' button or press Ctrl+Q.
. Added the YASS solver plugin to the distribution package. YASS is an
  acronym for "Yet Another Sokoban Solver" and is a solver that excels
  in finding push-optimal solutions for small levels.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.240
. The "NightShift3" skin by Gerry Wiseman has a new player animation
  in addition to some minor enhancements.
. Work in progress: Basic support for solver plugins is partially
  implemented. In the 'Settings' window, users can select a solver in
  "Control | Solver | Filename". The program can also launch a solver
  so it works on the currently loaded level, but importing any found
  solutions is still missing.
. Large levels with very big goal-rooms could make the program choke
  when it calculated the legal moves for a box. The calculation could
  take so long time that in practice, there was nothing else to do but
  to terminate the program abnormally, using Windows' Ctrl+Alt+Delete.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.239
. Bugfix (1.234): Trailing spaces, if any, weren't trimmed from
  text-lines embedded in skin-images when skins are loaded. Normally,
  this is not a problem, it only wastes a little space, but in section
  headers, e.g., "[<Skin name>]", it mattered. The script reader
  didn't recognize section headers with trailing spaces.

Version 1.238
. Added support for file type associations so clicking ".sok" files
  and ".xsb" files in Windows Explorer opens the files in Sokoban
  YASC. By default, this feature is disabled. You can activate it in
  the 'Settings' window: "Control | Miscellaneous | Associate ".sok"
  files and ".xsb" files with this application".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.237
. Added a new skin by Gerry Wiseman: "NightShift3".
. Added a new skin-animation feature: In-between frames have always
  been calculated by a smooth extrapolation, but some animations may
  benefit from simply duplicating the original images instead. This is
  now available and can be set individually for the 4 animations,
  e.g., "Player on goal animation". It makes the animation more jerky
  but it avoids the smearing effect which sometimes occurs when highly
  detailed drawings are extrapolated.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.236
. The term "Variation" has been changed to the better "Snapshot"
  throughout the application.
. Bugfix (1.233): It was impossible to install versions 1.233 .. 1.235
  on top of older versions because the installation procedure entered
  an infinite loop during the conversion of the existing settings.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.235
. Removed a case of flickering which occured in the 'Select skin' 
  window by browsing through ("foreign") script-based skins as opposed
  to image-based skins. The flicker only occured at the time the
  currently loaded skin was revisited.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.234
. Added support for embedded text in skin-images. (The text isn't
  visually readable.) This makes it possible for skins to carry their
  own special settings, whereas skins in prior versions of the program
  relied on the import-script to carry any special settings. Regarding
  skins distributed together with Sokoban YASC this doesn't make any
  difference for the user, but for the skin-format this is a major
  step forward. Skins can be shared and distributed without the
  program, and they will still appear exactly as it was the designer's
  intention. Sokoban YASC provides the necessary tool to put text
  inside a skin-image; please refer to the section "Note for Skin
  Designers" in the online help.
. Removed the "no-extra-skins-included" version from the distribution
  because older versions of the skins aren't compatible with the new
  scheme where skin-images carry their own special settings as
  embedded text.
. Added "Tooltips" to the 'Open' window so the filename under the
  mouse-cursor always is shown in full. This helps a little when
  file-names and folder-names exceed the width of the listboxes.
. Improved the "Sokoban for Windows" level-file conversion a little by
  including the copyright information. It is, however saved in the
  converted file as 'Author' rather than 'Copyright holder' even
  though they aren't necessarily identical. The 'Author' information
  is given special treatment in the common Sokoban file-format, 
  therefore, this alteration is the best choice.
. Bugfix (1.230): In the 'Settings' window, it had become impossible
  to enter meaningful values in some fields that uses the spin-edit
  control. The limits were wrong so only values in the range 0..100
  were accepted.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.233
. Added new clipboard feature: the keyboard shortcuts "Ctrl+M" and
  "Ctrl+P" copy the best found solutions moves/pushes to the clipboard
  in "raw" format, i.e., only the moves are copied and nothing else.
  (These keyboard shortcuts used to replay the best solutions, thus,
  they have moved to "Alt+M" and "Alt+P" respectively.)
. Added new options to settings: "Control | Pathfinding | Show legal
  moves | Player cursor", thereby allowing different shapes and colors
  of the rectangles that highlights the player and the boxes.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.232
. Changed one of the secondary scoring metrics: "Player steps" is now
  called "Push sessions" as in some other Sokoban clones. There was a
  subtle difference in meaning and calculation of the 2 terms, even
  though the difference seldom was noticable.
. Added a new file conversion feature: Converting "Sokoban for
  Windows" level files + solution files (2005 format) to the common
  Sokoban file format.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.231
. Improved the automatic skin-type detection for "Sokoban for Windows"
  skins.
. Bugfix (1.227): Importing solutions from the clipboard had stopped
  working correctly. It only allowed importing a single solution or
  snapshot in one operation; other items were ignored.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.230
. Added support for the skin-format used by the program
  "Sokoban for Windows" by Bjoern Kaellmark (2005 format). Some skin
  features, like different player-tiles for moves and pushes, are not
  supported.
. Added a new feature: When a new solution is found with the same
  number of moves/pushes as an existing solution, then the secondary
  scoring metrics, e.g., "box lines", work as arbitrators, using the
  new (linear) weights in settings:
  "Control | Solutions | Score metrics weights".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.229
. Minor changes.

Version 1.228
. Improved the efficiency of the skin scripting language, thereby
  reducing the load time by as much as 25% for some complex skins.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.227
. Added support for the Sokofan skin format (2005 format). Some
  Sokofan skin features, like different player-tiles for moves and
  pushes, are not supported.
. Added a new file conversion feature: Converting Sokofan level files
  + solution files (2005 format) to the common Sokoban file format.
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.226
. Bugfix (1.216): On rare occasions, the program crashed with the
  message "Runtime Error 103" because it tried to output text as if it
  was a console-based program instead of a windows-based program. YASC
  and the console-based solver program YASS share the code that
  precalculates deadlocks when a level is loaded, and after some
  improvements, this code-lump was copied from YASS to YASC in version
  1.216, including some console-messages which in the solver informed
  the user, that the program had found more deadlocks than it had room
  for. Therefore, YASC would crash in these situations.
. Some skins with seamless walls contain a so-called "wall-top" to 
  hide gaps that otherwise would show up between the walls. 
  Unfortunately, Sokoban YASC has always suffered from a misconception
  about how to apply them. The result is that some wall-tops, that
  aren't simple 1-colour flat pieces, don't show up correctly.
  Currently, there are no plans to repair it because it would require
  substantial changes in the program. This version, however, helps a
  little by adding correct handling of some zero-offset symmetrical
  wall-tops like the Sokoban++ skin "Bubble Bobble".

Version 1.225
. Refined the alloted names for anonymous levels in a level collection
  during the SokoMind file-conversion. Their titles are always
  something like "Level 999" where the number matches the level's 
  position in the file. In prior versions, the number was instead a 
  count of the anonymous levels with the result that, say, the fifth 
  level could get the name "Level 4" if the fourth level wasn't an
  anonymous level.

Version 1.224
. Minor changes.

Version 1.223
. Added a new file conversion feature: Converting SokoMind level
  files + solution files (2005 format) to the common Sokoban file
  format.
. Added a new file conversion feature: Merging 2 or more level files.
. The experimental "mostly clickless" mode has been overhauled. It is
  only an experimental feature, and it should not be taken too
  seriously, but it can be activated in the 'Settings' window:
  "Control | Miscellaneous | Mouse tracking mode enabled".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.222
. Added a new skin import feature: Loading foreign skript-based skins
  (e.g., Visual Sokoban scripts) are normally handled by a 
  control-script with embedded references to the foreign script. Now,
  if the foreign script contains a line with the text
  "[Sokoban YASC]", then the file is also read and analysed just like
  the control-script, in effect allowing the foreign script to hold
  additional information specific to this skin.

Version 1.221
. Added a very small improvement of the static deadlocks which is 
  calculated when a level is loaded.
. Bugfix: The 'Open' window serves different purposes in the program, 
  e.g., it's used for opening levels, skins, and pictures. After using
  the 'Open' window for loading skins, the drop-down width of the
  folder-history combobox and the file-history combobox shrunk to the
  bare minimum so folder-names and file-names in the drop-down lists
  weren't fully visible any more.

Version 1.220
. Added a new option to 'Settings':
  Control | Miscellaneous |
    Copy level to clipboard: Fill floors with "_".
  With default settings, this feature is disabled but it's often
  convenient to use underscores instead of spaces to represent floors
  because some programs remove what they consider unnecessary extra
  spaces.

Version 1.219
. Minor changes.

Version 1.218
. Minor changes.

Version 1.217
. Added built-in solutions for 25 of David. W. Skinner's 50
  "Sasquatch VII" levels.

Version 1.216
. Added a very small improvement of the static deadlocks which is 
  calculated when a level is loaded.
. Bugfix (1.213): The small improvement of the pre-calculated 
  deadlocks introduced in version 1.213 could on extremely rare 
  occasions produce a "false positive", i.e., it could label a legal
  position as being illegal.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.215
. Minor changes.

Version 1.214
. Minor changes.

Version 1.213
. Added a very small improvement of the static deadlocks which is 
  calculated when a level is loaded.

Version 1.212
. The maximum replay speed has been doubled to 100 moves/second.

Version 1.211
. Added new button functionality: "Ctrl+Mouse click" on the "Edit" 
  button creates a snapshot of the current position and opens it in 
  the editor. In previous versions, this feature was only available 
  using the keyboard shortcut "Ctrl+Shift+E".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.210
. Added built-in solutions to more of David Holland's levels.

Version 1.209
. Minor changes.

Version 1.208
. Minor changes.

Version 1.207
. Minor changes.

Version 1.206
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.205
. Minor changes.

Version 1.204
. Bugfix (1.203): The level notes can be edited in the 'Open' window
  but if the modifications included a manual adjustment of the timing
  information, then the timing information was reset to 00:00:00.

Version 1.203
. The level editor kept the level's timing information, if any, even
  if the existing snapshots and solutions weren't applicable after the
  modifications.

Version 1.202
. Key/value pairs in level notes and ini-files may now be written with
  spaces between the key and the separator, e.g., "key : value". Prior
  versions only allowed spaces between the separator and the value.

Version 1.201
. Bugfix: File-manager features in the 'Open' window: Moving or 
  copying a level to another collection: If another level with the
  same name already existed in the collection, then the copied or
  moved level inherited the notes, if any, from the old level.

Version 1.200
. In the 'Open' window, there was a dilemma with keyboard shortcuts
  like Ctrl+C and Ctrl+V for copying/pasting levels to/from the
  clipboard. If the file listbox was the currently selected control in
  the window, then the listbox first interpreted the keys as browsing 
  commands, i.e., selecting the first/next item starting with, say,
  "C". In that case, the menu-command operated on a different file 
  than the one originally selected by the user. There doesn't seem to
  be a way to disable the listbox browsing mechanism, so as a 
  work-around the program now drops the menu-command if the listbox 
  interprets the keys as a browsing operation, meaning the user must
  use the pull-down menu to perform the action instead of a keyboard 
  shortcut. (Thanks to Fred Minklei for reporting this problem.) 

Version 1.199
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.

Version 1.198
. Bugfix (1.188): Using "Save as..." in the editor window to create a
  new, possible modified, copy of an existing level sometimes created
  an extra copy of the level in the original file. (Thanks to Fred
  Minklei for reporting this bug.) 
. Bugfix (1.188): Minor graphical correction: If the editor window 
  had been opened during the session, then the program showed one of
  the specialized editor mouse cursors for a few milli seconds during
  shutdown.

Version 1.197
. Bugfix (1.101): Minor text correction: With the mouse over the
  "replay" button on the statusbar, there could be artifacts of the
  old hint-text behind the replay-speed slider. This only occured in
  case the current position was a deadlock.

Version 1.196
. If Windows was shutting down while Sokoban YASC was active, then the
  program terminated abnormally with a runtime error. It's unlikely
  that this has been a problem from the beginning because it would
  have been found during program testing, so chances are that the
  problem is a Windows XP compatibility issue.

Version 1.195
. When a level collection is imported from the clipboard, its name can
  be specified in the file notes using a line with the keyword
  "Title". If unspecified, the name as usual defaults to the anonymous
  name "Levels" followed by a number.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.194
. New editor feature: Clicking 'Shift+Ctrl+E' in the main window 
  creates a new level based on the current position (instead of the
  starting position) and opens the editor.
. The items on the internal clipboard are saved to disk each time the
  user exits the editor (or more precisely, each time the 
  'Internal clipboard' window is closed). This is safer than waiting 
  until the program ends.
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Bugfix (1.188): After creating a new level in the editor, the editor
  history was cleared the first time the user returned to the main 
  window after the creation. The editor history is meant to survive
  from one session to the next and it worked correctly for existing
  levels and for any further editing of the new level.
. Bugfix (1.188): After creating a new level in the editor, the 
  save-dialog had the application folder as default folder instead of
  the "Levels" folder.
. Bugfix (1.188): After closing the editor window, the boxes were 
  misplaced in the main window in case the editor originally was 
  launched while the game was in reverse mode and no moves had been
  performed.
. Bugfix (1.188): After editing a level, the game engine on rare 
  occasions failed to detect that a reverse mode game had been 
  invalidated when new walls blocked the moves.
. Bugfix (1.30): Renaming of levels and snapshots now guards against 
  names that can be interpreted as moves by the file-reader, e.g.,
  "Dull".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.193
. Bugfix (1.188): Saving a new level using "Save as..." in the editor
  window sometimes had the consequence that the new level inherited
  the level notes from the level currently shown in the main window.
. Bugfix (1.188): The 'Open' window can be activated from several
  places in the program but if it was activated for the first time by
  clicking the button "Open" in the editor window, then the drop-down
  width for the folder-history combo-box and the file-history 
  combo-box wasn't set correctly.

Version 1.192
. Snapshots and internal clipboard items couldn't be renamed if the
  only modification was a change of uppercase/lowercase characters.
  Now renaming is case sensitive.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.191
. Bugfix (1.188): After deleting the last row(s) of a level in the new
  editor, the level was rejected as an illegal level until it was 
  padded with an equal number of non-empty rows.

Version 1.190
. Added an optional grid to the level editor.
. Added "Import built-in solution(s)" to the file-menu in the 'Open' 
  window. Prior versions only had a rather discrete button to activate
  the feature, and putting it on the menu may make it easier to find.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.189
. The file-manager functions in the 'Open' window didn't allow
  renaming files and levels if the only modification was a change of
  uppercase/lowercase characters. Now renaming is case sensitive.
. Bugfix: After renaming a file using the file-manager functions in
  the 'Open' window, a file with the old name was created as an empty
  level collection if the file happened to be the one holding the 
  currently loaded level.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.188
. Replaced the old level editor by a new one.
. Bugfix (1.129): If the 'Recent skins' history in the 'Settings' 
  window was empty, then each session with the program added a blank
  line to the configuration file 'Sokoban.ini'.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.187
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.186
. The "HeavyMetal3" skin by Gerry Wiseman has been replaced by a new
  version.
. Improved the logic deciding what to treat as floor-cells so a level
  like David W. Skinner's "Sasquatch 41" looks better when it's
  rendered with a skin having floor-cell pictures.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.185
. The "Music Player" button in the main window was moved to a more
  discreet position. 
. Bugfix: Letting the program show the legal moves for a box and then
  loading a snapshot from the snapshots window "engraved" the legal
  move highlights in the main window until next time a level was
  loaded.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.184
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Added new levels by Aymeric du Peloux, including built-in solutions.
. The "HeavyMetal3" skin by Gerry Wiseman has been replaced by a new
  version.
. First time the program is installed, the sound volume it initialized
  to 50% of the user's normal sound volume. This reduces the risk of
  sound-effects becoming a disturbing factor.
. Improved the support for Sokoban++ skins by modifying the
  import-script so it can cope with images gathered in a single image.
  It is, however, still not possible to import skins using different
  tile sizes, e.g., "Perfect Sokoban" skins.
. Improved the layout of the menu items in the main window.
. Bugfix (1.129): the "if"-statement in the skin-script language
  sometimes discarded the line following right after "endif".
. Bugfix: Windows allows the user to launch programs using keyboard 
  shortcuts like Ctrl+Alt+W. Doing that inside YASC's main window had
  the unwanted side-effect that undo/redo moves switched to
  single-stepping through combined moves (or vice-versa depending on
  settings). (Internally, the program didn't detect that the [Ctrl] 
  button was released after launching the program, hence its state 
  was "Down" until the user pressed and released it a second time.)
. Bugfix: After deleting a file using the file-manager function in the
  'Open' window, the file was always resurrected if the deleted file
  happened to be the one with the currently loaded level. This was 
  only meant to happen if the user started playing the level back in
  the main window.
. Bugfix: The drop-down width for comboboxes on the music-player's
  'Open' window was only adjusted according to the width of the widest
  item at program load-time and not each time the user added a new
  item to the history. 
. Minor changes

Version 1.183
. The skins "HeavyMetal3" and "Jumanji3" by Gerry Wiseman have been
  replaced by new versions.
. Added built-in solutions to more of Evgeny Grigoriev's levels and 
  David Holland's levels.
. New options in 'Settings': "Graphics | Editor | Colors". The colors
  of the different items, e.g., walls and boxes, are now customizable.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.182
. The "Chinese Checkers" skin by Gerry Wiseman has been replaced by a
  new version.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.181
. The "Chinese Checkers" skin by Gerry Wiseman has been replaced by a
  new version.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.180
. Changed the Sokoban copyright notice. The copyright to the original 
  Sokoban game now belongs to Falcon Co., Ltd., Japan.

Version 1.179
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Added a new option to 'Settings': "Sound | Sound volume (%)". 
  Previous versions only allowed changing the sound volume in the 
  music-player windows but for a newcomer it's easier to find this 
  option in 'Settings'.
. Bugfix (1.177): After using [Ctrl]+V to import levels or solutions 
  in the main window, the buttons "Previous level" and "Next level"
  searched for unsolved levels even when the [Ctrl] button wasn't 
  pressed. (Internally, the program didn't detect that the [Ctrl] 
  button was released after the import, hence its state was "Down"
  until the user pressed and released it a second time.)
. Minor changes.

Version 1.178
. Added new levels to the YASGen collection, including built-in 
  solutions.
. Added a new option to 'Settings': "Control | Miscellaneous | Export
  level collection to clipboard: Include level comments".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.177
. Gerry Wiseman's skins "ChineseCheckers", "Magneto", and "Metalica2"
  have been replaced by new enhanced versions.
. New feature: The buttons "Previous level" and "Next level" in the
  main window have got an extra function. If [Ctrl] is pressed, they 
  search through the level-files for the previous/next unsolved level.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.176
. The term "Animation" in the settings and in the skin scripts has
  been changed to "Highlight animation" in order to avoid confusion
  with move-animation, e.g., playback of solutions. Saved settings
  and skin scripts in their respective default folders are updated 
  automatically and users only need to edit their files manually if 
  they have settings and/or skin scripts located elsewhere.
. The smooth object shadows in some of the skins have never been
  depicted properly because they were below the default threshold
  for substracting the background image. Now the threshold has been 
  lowered for selected skins in order to enhance the graphical 
  quality of the static image. An unwanted side-effect is that it
  makes the object look slightly worse when it's animated but the 
  difference is hardly noticable.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.175
. All of Gerry Wiseman's skins have been "massaged" so the darkest
  color is 6% above pure black. This doesn't affect the visual 
  appearance of the raw skin but it improves on the separation of 
  players and boxes from the image background. (The connection may not
  be obvious but because of the all the options built into the
  program, e.g., scaling and smooth move-animation, there is one.)

Version 1.174
. Gerry Wiseman's skin "HeavyMetal3" has been replaced by a new 
  enhanced high-definition version.

Version 1.173
. The "Metalica2" skin by Gerry Wiseman has been replaced by a new
  version.
. The YSokoban skin format has been promoted to a standard skin format
  for Sokoban and renamed to "Common Skin Format".
. Anonymous levels in a collection are now named "Level 1", "Level 2",
  etc. instead of "Level", "Level (2)" etc. Other duplicate names
  still use the parenthesis.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.172
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.

Version 1.171
. Minor changes.

Version 1.170
. Gerry Wiseman's skin "NightShift2" has been replaced by a new 
  enhanced high-definition version.
. The music player's 'Open' window now has a "Stop" button as a
  supplement to the "Play/Pause" button. Previous versions only had a
  "Stop" button in the 'Music player' window.
. Bugfix (1.0) or maybe a Windows XP compatibility issue: If "Play 
  audio CD" was selected as music source for the music player, then it
  was not always possible to enter the music player's 'Open' window
  without inserting a disk. Windows' own messagebox "Insert disk" was
  shown repeatedly until a disk was inserted in case there earlier had
  been a CD in the drive.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.169
. The skin "ChineseCheckers" by Gerry Wiseman has been slightly
  modified in order to improve the wall intersections.
. The program now uses custom-made mouse-cursors for "drag" and "hand"
  instead of the mouse-cursors supplied by the Delphi programming 
  tool. This is a work-around to avoid a subtle problem with these 
  built-in mouse-cursors. They have different hotspot-points than the
  default-cursor and when the cursor changes, this can cause flicker
  because it seems like either Windows or the Delphi programming tool
  have a logical flaw. The new cursor appears on the screen using the
  old cursor's hotspot-point before it is moved to the correct 
  position, taking the new hotspot-point into account. This behavior
  is sometimes noticable on a busy or a slow machine and can look a 
  little disturbing. As a work-around, the program now uses custom- 
  made mouse-cursors with the same hotspot-points as the default 
  mouse-cursor.

Version 1.168
. Bugfix (1.167): Levels with all boxes on goals in the starting 
  position should be treated as unsolved but by mistake the program
  insisted that the first move should push a box. If the first move
  merely moved the player, the level was considered as solved.

Version 1.167
. New feature: 'Settings' has the new option "Control | Solutions |
  Solutions require at least one push" with default value "yes". This
  makes it possible to have levels with all the boxes on goals in the
  starting position.
. Some of the built-in skins have got new a new "logo" and the unused
  cells have been "beautified". Thanks to Fred Minklei for this.
. Some of the built-in skins have got more accurate settings for
  "razoring" the shadow of the outer walls.

Version 1.166
. Gerry Wiseman's skin "Jumanji3" has been replaced by a new version.

Version 1.165
. Bugfix: After maximizing the 'Open' window, restoring to the 
  original size didn't work in case the original window had the
  default height. In that case, the window retained the maximized size
  and only moved to the original position. 
. Bugfix: With default window size, 2 buttons in the 'Edit' window
  were not fully visible anymore if the user had chosen "large fonts"
  in the Windows settings.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.164
. Gerry Wiseman's skin "AntiqueDesk" has been replaced by a new
  enhanced high-definition version.

Version 1.163
. 2 or 3 more of Gerry Wiseman's skins have been replaced by new
  enhanced high-definition versions.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.162
. It turned out that the proper chess term was "variations" after all,
  not "variants" as version 1.161 claimed. "Variant" means a variant
  of the game and "variation" is a branch in a game. Thanks to Daniel
  Cielak for correcting this mistake. ("Variations" were later renamed
  to "snapshots" in version 1.236.)

Version 1.161
. In earlier versions, part-solutions were named "variations" but the
  proper term from chess is "variants". Now the program has been
  updated accordingly. ("Variations" were later renamed to "snapshots"
  in version 1.236.)
 

Version 1.160
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.159
. Some of Gerry Wiseman's skins have been replaced by new enhanced
  high-definition versions.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.158
. Added a new "Jumanji3" skin; replaced "ChineseCheckers" by a 50x50
  version; replaced "HeavyMetal3" by an enhanced version; all skins by
  Gerry Wiseman.

Version 1.157
. Bugfix (1.156): Skins with player images for each direction had 
  stopped working because some of the options in the 'Settings' window
  had been renamed and the skin import scripts didn't take that into
  account. If you have any old settings files you need to edit them 
  manually. Use a text editor to replace the word "matching" with
  "appropriate".

Version 1.156
. The 'Settings' menu had a "Load default skin" button that used red
  boxes. Now the default skin comes in two flavours, one with red 
  boxes and another with yellow boxes.
. Bugfix (1.129): One of the features of the skin script language is
  a "RealTile" sentence for depicting the situation if the tiles in an
  image have a border (e.g., "RealTile=1,1,-1,-1") but it didn't work
  as it should.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.155
. Bugfix (1.141): The guard against having levels with identical names
  in a collection wasn't 100% fool-proof anymore, even though it 
  required a contrived naming scheme to outwit it. Now the levels
  (and snapshots) again always get unique names.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.154
. Bugfix (1.129): Boxes on goals weren't shown correctly in the rare
  situation that the user imported a box-on-goal image for the skin
  with a different size than the goal-image and the mask-color was
  non-black. The box-on-goal image wasn't masked in that case.

Version 1.153
. Replaced the "Jumanji" skin by a new improved version, thanks to
  Gerry Wiseman.

Version 1.152
. Minor changes.

Version 1.151
. Replaced the skins "Metalica3" and "Jumanji" with new improved
  versions, thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. Skin format enhancement: Added a 2-row variant of the YSokoban skin
  format, i.e., a variant without animation images. This makes it easy
  to edit and arrange "simple" skins so Sokoban YASC can import them.
  The first 3 columns are identical to the YSokoban format and the top
  cell in the 4. column must contain the wall image, or if it's a
  seamless wall, the 3x2 wall must begin in the 4. column.
. Skin format enhancement: Added a simple 1-row format with 4..7 tiles
  arranged in this order: player, player on goal (7-tile skins only), 
  box, box on goal (not 4-tile skins), goal, wall, and floor (6- and
  7-tile skins only). For conveniency, there is no separate script for
  this format. Instead, it has been implemented as an extension of the
  YSokoban format.
. Bugfix (1.129): On rare occasions, the thumbnail preview of the
  levels in the 'Open' window didn't show the level properly. 
  The problem occured if the skin had seamless walls with transparent
  right-side columns.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.150
. Bugfix (1.148): The statusbar panels like "Moves" and "Pushes" 
  cannot be black if the subtexts are opaque because the subtexts
  disappears (black is used for masking the image). Now the
  'Settings' window avoids the situation by changing the color to
  "almost black" if the user selects black as panel color.

Version 1.149
. Version 1.141 fixed a problem with loading large level collections
  with anonymous level titles but as an unwanted side-effect, simple
  duplicate names weren't consecutively numbered anymore. This has
  been fixed now.
. Bugfix (1.129): Skins with transparent (but visible) floor tiles
  were not shown properly, i.e., the option "Mask image using
  background color" didn't work as it should for the floor tile.
. Minor changes. 

Version 1.148
. The subtexts in statusbar panels like "Moves" and "Pushes" were not
  clipped by the rounded rectangles. This had no consequences with
  default settings where subtexts are transparent but opaque subtexts
  could leak to the surrounding area.
. Bugfix: Using the mouse to drag-and-drop a box typically moves the
  box several squares on the board, and these so-called
  "combined moves" are treated as singular entities by "Undo" and
  "Redo". The user can stop "Redo" at any time during replay (this is
  sometimes convenient in case of a very long combined move) but the
  remaining moves in the combined move were "atomized", that is, they
  appeared as individual moves instead of a combined move. This problem
  only occured using "Redo", i.e., replaying the next move from history,
  not when "Replay" was used for replaying the entire game. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.147
. Bugfix (1.136): 'Settings' has the option "Control | Solutions | 
  Save old best solutions after clipboard import" but solutions were
  often saved, even if this feature was disabled.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.146
. Bugfix (1.145): The script for importing YSokoban skins limited the
  player-on-goal animation to 4 images even if the skin had more
  images. The other animations, i.e., player, box, and box-on-goal
  were ok.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.145
. Skin format enhancement: The game engine already had the machinery
  to handle player animations and box animations with a variable
  number of frames, but the 4-column YSokoban skin format limited the
  usability of this feature. Now YSokoban skins can have extra columns,
  in effect allowing a variable number of animation frames.
. Minor skin modifications, thanks to Gerry Wiseman.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.144
. Added 14 skins by Gerry Wiseman.
. Added a new 6-row variant of the YSokoban skin format with
  directional player images but without animations.
. Added a new 12-row variant of the YSokoban skin format with
  directional player images.
. Windows XP compatibility: On machines with Windows XP, the help
  screen didn't appear after installing the program.
. Bugfix (1.129): Importing skins in YSokoban format didn't show the
  walls correctly if the skin tiles had an odd size.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.143
. Bugfix (1.129): When settings are saved to a diskfile, the program
  automatically suggests a valid new filename. This name can be
  changed manually, but the program didn't block the name "YASC",
  even though it's reserved for internal use.

Version 1.142
. Bugfix (1.00): The 'Open' window failed loading the current level
  the first time the window was activated after changing the image
  wiever (one of the music player 'activities') source folder to a
  folder on a different drive than the one where the application is
  installed. 

Version 1.141
. Bugfix (1.30): Sokoban YASC can load large level collections, and
  the only limit is the available memory. There was, however, a
  problem with large collections without level titles, or with titles 
  after the board as part of the level notes. In these cases, the
  load time could be so long that it in practice was necessary to
  abort the program.

Version 1.140
. Minor changes.

Version 1.139
. New feature: the main menu in the 'Open' window now has a
  "Reorganize file" option. Use it to refresh the contents of a level
  file, for instance to remove the now obsolete parenthesis from
  solutions created with versions older than 1.138.
. Bugfix (1.64): Modifying level notes in the 'Open' window could on 
  rare occasions save the level in "pretty-printed" format (70 moves
  per line) even if this feature had been disabled in 'Settings'.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.138
. Feature revision: Previous versions kept the combined move ordering 
  exactly as the user entered the moves. For instance, using the mouse
  to drag and drop a box made one combined move. Now this ordering only
  exists during the current session, and the information isn't saved in
  the file anymore (the parenthesis in the file have gone). Instead, an
  optimal combined move ordering is calculated each time a level is
  loaded. A pleasant side-effect is that imported foreign solutions
  (typically without combined moves information) now also appear with
  optimized combined moves.
. The file reader now also accepts "-" (hyphen) as a floor square. 
  Previous versions only accepted "_" (underscore) as an alternative to 
  the space character, but the Yahoo Sokoban User Group has started to
  use "-".
. The file format description has been revised in order to clarify
  some issues. The version number is now 0.02.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.137
. Minor changes.

Version 1.136
. Added a new option to 'Settings': "Control | Solutions | Save old
  best solutions after clipboard import".
. Bugfix (~1.72): Importing new solutions from the clipboard didn't
  always save dethroned best solutions as normal snapshots.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.135
. Added a red built-in button to the 'Buttons' section in the
  'Settings' main menu.
. Bugfix (1.134): In the 'Open' window, focus changed to another level
  after importing a solution from the clipboard. The import itself was
  ok.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.134
. Feature enhancement (1.129): Loading skins is now at least 50%
  faster.
. New skin support feature: Skins with seamless walls, that is, skins 
  with separate images for each type of junction, often reserve a part
  of the cell for a shadow. This looks good for inner walls, but outer
  walls often looks better without the shadow. Therefore, 'Settings'
  now include a "razor":
  "Graphics | Board | Figures | Wall | Outer wall razor".
. New skin support feature: Skins with seamless walls, that is, skins
  with separate images for each type of junction, often comes with a
  so-called "wall-top" to fill floor-squares surrounded by 4 walls.
  With default settings, wall-tops are painted midways between two
  squares, but 'Settings' now offers the choice of entering the
  offset manually:
  "Graphics | Board | Figures | Wall | Walltop offset, pixels".
. Windows XP compatibility: A large number of the user interface
  components, e.g., buttons, menus, and lists, now use XP graphics
  instead of Windows 98 graphics.
. Windows XP compatibility (1.121): On XP/2000, the "copy level to
  clipboard" feature (Ctrl+C) only worked when it was activated from
  the 'Open' window, not from the main window. The program used
  Windows' 'MessageBox' function to inform the user, that the copy
  had taken place, and somehow, this text replaced the level in the
  clipboard, but only when the copy was activated from the main
  window, and only on XP/2000, not Window 98.
. Windows XP compatibility: Resizing the main window was
  uncomfortable because every single mouse movement resized the
  window to that particular size, in effect triggering a cascade of 
  resizing operations.
. Bugfix (1.129): 'Save settings' moved auto-generated images into
  the saved skin instead of copying them, meaning that after
  successive calls to 'Save settings', only the last one had a
  working version of the images.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.133
. Bugfix (1.129): The "Browse" feature always used a single image for
  the player, even if the currently loaded skin had separate images
  for the 4 directions.

Version 1.132
. Minor changes.

Version 1.131
. Bugfix (1.129): Opening saved settings-files had stopped working in
  the wast majority of cases where the file contained references to
  built-in medias like pictures and sounds. (The new unified module for
  importing settings and skins required that filenames should refer to
  real files, not special "files" named "[Standard]".)
. Bugfix (1.129): If opening a previously saved settings-file failed, 
  the 'Settings' window might contain garbage, and if the user later
  returned to the main window by selecting "Ok" instead of "Cancel",
  these garbage values were unintentionally committed. 
  This is the same problem that partially was repaired in version
  1.130 for the skins.

Version 1.130
. Version 1.129 restored maximized windows to their normal size before
  entering 'Settings'. This was meant to cure some problems where
  'Settings' couldn't differentiate current window size and normal
  size. Now windows are maximized again on exit from 'Settings'.
. Bugfix (1.129): Skin import is activated from the 'Settings' window,
  and even if an import failed, it could still have updated some of
  the settings before it failed. Users could continue working in the
  'Settings' window, and if they later returned to the main window by
  selecting "Ok" instead of "Cancel", these garbage values were
  unintentionally committed.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.129
. New feature: Skins. Sokoban YASC has always been highly
  configurable, changing components one at a time, and now it can also
  import "skins", in effect, changing the complete appearance of the
  game in a single operation. The import is very flexible and is not 
  limited to a fixed skin-format. Instead, the import is controlled by
  scripts, one script for each format. That way, it's possible to add
  scripts when new skin-formats are introduced. Sokoban YASC comes
  with 5 built-in scripts for importing skins from "Sokoban++",
  "Sokoban BDE", "Sokoban YASC Settings", "Visual Sokoban", and
  "YSokoban". (A few Sokoban++ skins are not supported and neither
  are Visual Sokoban skins using ".gif" images).
. New feature: Skin support feature: Seamless walls. Prior versions
  only had a single picture for all wall-cells. Now there is support
  for seamless walls where each type of junction has its own image.
. New feature: Skin support feature: Prior versions only had a single
  picture for the player. Now each direction can have its own picture.
. New feature: Skin support feature: YSokoban-skins include animations 
  for highlightning the player or a box, e.g., when the program shows
  the legal moves for a selected box. These animations are also
  supported by Sokoban YASC.
. For concistency with the new skin feature, the saved settings files 
  (.set files) have been transferred to the new sub-folder
  "Skins\YASC Settings". Using Sokoban YASC, you won't notice any 
  difference, it's only if you look for the files using another
  program, say, a file-manager, that you won't find your old files
  where they used to be.
. New feature: 'Settings' main menu now includes a 'Buttons' section
  with 3 built-in button-sets: Blue, green, and orange.
. Added new levels by Aymeric du Peloux, including built-in solutions.
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Added an application-specific icon to the setup-program instead of
  the default icon supplied by the development tool.
  Thanks to Fred Minklei for designing and creating the icon, and
  thanks to "Games 4 Brains" (website: http://www.games4brains.de) 
  for permission to use their excellent graphics in Sokoban YASC.
. The 'Open' window sometimes had a problem when it loaded large
  levels with more than, say, 200 boxes. The reason seemed to be 
  resource constraints somewhere in the development tool or the
  operating system. Therefore, the game viewer has been modified so
  it doesn't use so many individual images, hence, the problem is
  less likely to occur. A nice side-effect is that browsing through 
  several large levels is much faster now.
. Bugfix (1.124): Clicking an empty square shows the boxes that can go
  there, but all moves leading to a deadlock were filtered out even 
  if the option "Block moves leading to low and medium type deadlocks"
  was turned off.
. Bugfix (1.124): The screen wasn't updated properly when a snapshot
  was loaded from the 'Snapshots window' right after clicking an
  empty square to see which boxes could go there. The cursor at the
  destination square was left on the screen until next time a box was
  moved.
. Bugfix (1.72?): Importing a built-in solution always degraded a 
  dethroned best-move solution to a normal snapshot even if it still 
  was a best-push solution. This snapshot was promoted to best-push 
  solution next time the level was loaded, so no data was lost.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.128
. Bugfix (1.30): The built-in editor can rotate and mirror the board,
  but in case one of the drawingtools was activated, say, a wall, 
  then rotating/mirroring triggered a drawing operation as well, in
  effect placing a wall on the current square.

Version 1.127
. Bugfix (1.00): Level titles with periods have never been shown
  properly in the main window title line. A period truncated the
  title. This has first been rectified now, even though it was known
  from the start. A nice side-effect is that all David W. Skinner's
  levels finally could be renamed so they include the "W.".

Version 1.126
. Bugfix (1.124): Move animation, e.g., during replay of a solution,
  suffered from a small, but noticable glitch. A box disappeared from
  the screen for a split second each time it went from a goal square
  to a non-goal square and vice versa.

Version 1.125
. The new application icon introduced in version 1.124 had some
  corners that should be transparent but appeared as opaque grey
  areas. This has been rectified, thanks to Fred Minklei.

Version 1.124
. Added a proper application icon instead of the default icon 
  supplied by the development tool. Thanks to "Games 4 Brains"
  (website: http://www.games4brains.de) for permission to use their
  graphics in Sokoban YASC, and thanks to Fred Minklei for creating
  the icon.
. New feature: Clicking an empty square shows the boxes that can go
  there.
. Added an optional shadow to the box cursor, see 'Settings':
  "Control | Pathfinding | Show legal moves | Box cursor | Shadow".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.123
. Added new option to settings: "Control | Miscellaneous | Confirm
  running multiple instances of the application".
. Added new option to settings: "Control | Miscellaneous | On changing
  Windows' display driver". The options are "Shutdown" and "Continue
  on own risk".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.122
. When a level is loaded, it always takes some time before deadlock
  detection kicks in, meaning that the first moves may go
  un-supervised. The time taken for the pre-calculations has been
  significantly reduced for large levels by a better algorithm for
  calculating reachable goals from each square, a calculation
  required for the general "b boxes, g goals, b > g" detection
  introduced in version 1.121. The savings can be up to 90% for large
  levels with more than 200 boxes.
. Also, deadlock search itself has increased the speed by as much as
  80% for large levels due to an optimization of the algorithm,
  thanks to Matthias Meger.
. Bugfix (1.121): The new general "b boxes, g goals, b > g" deadlock
  detection could on rare occasions block some legal moves by mistake.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.121
. New feature: The currently selected level can be copied to the
  clipboard, both from the 'Main window' using Ctrl+C, and from the
  'Open' window using the menu. (The opposite function, importing
  levels from the clipboard, has been available since version 1.00.)
. New feature: Using the 'Open' window, the currently opened level
  collection can be copied to the clipboard. Only basic puzzle 
  information, i.e., board, title, and author is copied, not solutions
  and snapshots. This simple format makes it easier to export levels
  to programs without support for the full Sokoban file format.
. Improved the deadlock detection by adding a general "b boxes, g
  goals, b > g" check. Prior versions only handled special-case
  situations with boxes on a closed line, and although this is the 
  largest and most important sub-class, a general mechanism is
  preferable.
. Bugfix (1.101): For some level types, the calculation of deadlock
  sets at level load time can be a time-consuming task, and sometimes
  it didn't stop as it should, when the user loaded another level.
  Often, this resulted in advanced deadlock detection being unavailable
  for the rest of the session.
. Bugfix (1.87): Using the ''Open' window' to import a single level from
  the clipboard (as opposed to importing multiple levels, and as
  opposed to importing a single level using the 'Main' window) didn't
  save the level to disk automatically, hence, it was lost unless the
  user later saved it manually from the 'Main' window.
. Bugfix (1.30): Importing solutions to the currently selected game
  from the clipboard had the side-effect that snapshots
  (part-solutions), if any, in the 'Snapshots' window were deleted.
. Bugfix (1.00): The 'Open' window offers the choice to
  copy/move/rename/delete files. Selecting 'Delete' and then clicking
  the 'Help button' in the now opened dialog window worked all right,
  but on return from the online help, a message concerning a
  screen-drawing error was issued. The drawing error had no
  consequences for the program and the message was purely
  informational. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.120
. Added "Control | Pathfinding | Show legal moves | Box cursor |
  Pen width (pixels)" to settings.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.119
. Minor changes.

Version 1.118
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. New feature: Clicking a wall shows movable boxes in the current
  position.
. Added release notes to the online help.
. Improved the deadlock detection significantly by introducing a
  better method for selecting which boxes to investigate, a co-work
  with Matthias Meger.
. Feature enhancement: Deadlock detection and blocking deadlock moves
  have been separated. With detection enabled and blocking disabled, 
  the program issues a warning and shows the offending boxes when it
  detects a deadlock situation.
. Redesigned the deadlock detection settings and gave them their own
  section: "Control | Deadlock detection".
. Simplified the keyboard short-cuts for rotating/mirroring the board
  so [Ctrl]+1 .. [Ctrl]+8 select a new transformation directly. The
  old short-cuts rotated/mirrored the board relative to the existing
  transformation.
. Bugfix (1.116): Mirroring the board horizontally or vertically
  corrupted the board preview in the 'Snapshots' window. The board
  itself was ok, it was only the screen that wasn't updated properly.
. Renamed Aymeric du Peloux's level-collection from "Peloux.sok" to
  "du Peloux.sok". Prior versions are updated automatically when a
  new version of the program is installed on top of an old one.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.117
. Extended deadlock detection has always worked as an extension to
  the simple detection. The "Settings" screen, however, did not make
  this clear and it allowed independent settings for them. Changing
  one of them now automatically updates the other one, so it's clear
  that they work as a "tower" of protection mechanisms. (Obsolete
  after redesigning deadlock settings in version 1.118.)

Version 1.116
. Added a new level collection with 160 levels by Aymeric du Peloux,
  including built-in solutions.
. Added new levels by David W. Skinner.
. New feature: The board can be rotated and mirrored during the game.
. Improved the dynamic deadlock detection by searching not only until
  one box escapes the fenced-in area, but until all boxes escape (or
  reach goal positions, of course).
. Some YASGen levels have been 'beautified', i.e., some unimportant
  outer walls have been removed.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.115
. Minor changes and bugfixes related to the deadlock detection.

Version 1.114
. Minor changes.

Version 1.113
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.112
. Improved the deadlock detection by performing a search after each
  move, testing if some boxes now form impenetrable "walls". If they
  do, the program issues a warning and highlights the boxes.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.111
. Limited the search for deadlock situations in order to finish this
  calculation earlier.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.110
. Lowered the runtime priority for the thread calculating deadlocks
  in the background.
. Added a very discreet button for manually stopping the 
  deadlock-sets calculation. This comes in handy for levels where the
  calculation takes too long time.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.109
. Minor changes and bugfixes related to deadlock detection.

Version 1.108
. Added new "YASGen" levels, including built-in solutions.
. Bugfix (1.105): The simple deadlock detection could on rare
  occasions block some legal moves by mistake.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.107
. Bugfix (1.105): The deadlock detection still blocked some legal
  moves by mistake.

Version 1.106
. Bugfix (1.105): The deadlock detection blocked some legal moves by
  mistake.

Version 1.105
. Improved the check for simple illegal moves.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.104
. Added a new deadlock pattern ("3-block") to the deadlock detection
  mechanism.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.103
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.

Version 1.102
. Added new "YASGen" level, including built-in solution.
. Bugfix (1.101): If opening a new level in the 'Open' window was
  cancelled, then the level in the main window wasn't subject to
  extended deadlock detection until another level was loaded. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.101
. New feature: Extended deadlock detection. The program has always
  been able to block simple illegal moves, but now it can also block
  moves leading to more complex deadlock positions. This new feature
  can be turned on/off in settings:
  "Control | Do/Undo moves | Extended deadlock detection | Enabled".
  (Obsolete, deadlock settings were redesigned in version 1.118.)
. Minor changes.

Version 1.100
. The panels "Moves" and "Pushes" in the statusbar had "transparent"
  captions where the text only was readable as a result of the
  contrast between the panel-color and the background. Now there is a
  choice between "transparent" captions and coloured captions.

Version 1.99
. Added optional display of the level dimensions in the main window's
  title line.
. Added selectable level dimensions text-format to settings:
  [columns x rows] or [rows x colums].
. Lowered the default transparency for the panels on the statusbar
  in order to increase the contrast between panels and sub-texts.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.98
. Added "Graphics | Status | Panels | Subtext font size" to settings,
  i.e., the subtext font size can now be adjusted in case the rather
  small default size is hard to read.
. Added displaying the board-dimensions to the 'Open' window.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.97
. Added extra scoring metrics: Box-lines, box-changes, and
  player-steps. They pop up when the mouse-cursor is over "Moves" or
  "Pushes" on the statusbar. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.96
. Bugfix (1.00): The box pathfinding algorithm failed in case the
  board had maximum width or height (50 squares).

Version 1.95
. Added new "YASGen" levels, including built-in solutions.
. Bugfix (~1.60): When multiple levels were imported from the
  clipboard, the file-format description was always added to the 
  output file, even when this feature was disabled in settings.

Version 1.94
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.

Version 1.93
. Bugfix (1.89): The pathfinding algorithm still failed finding
  optimal paths when it should optimize for moves instead of pushes.

Version 1.92
. Bugfix (~1.72): Using the 'Open' window to import built-in solutions
  didn't update the column on the screen listing the solved-status of 
  the levels in the current collection. The screen update first took 
  place when another level was selected; the import itself worked ok.

Version 1.91
. Bugfix (1.64): If the current level was a new one (either imported
  from the clipboard or created in the editor) then the program 
  entered an infinite loop if the clipboard-import was activated.

Version 1.90
. Bugfix (1.87): Using the 'Import from clipboard' feature in the
  'Open' window to import new solutions to a level replaced old
  solutions, if any, even if the old solutions were better.
  (This only happened using the import feature in the 'Open' window,
  not the identical feature in the 'Main' window).

Version 1.89
. Bugfix (1.88): The pathfinding algorithm still failed finding
  optimal paths when it should optimize for moves instead of pushes.

Version 1.88
. Bugfix (1.87): The pathfinding algorithm still failed finding
  optimal paths when it should optimize for moves instead of pushes.

Version 1.87
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. The 'Open' window now also has the 'Import from clipboard' function.
. Bugfix (1.20): The pathfinding algorithm finds optimal paths either
  optimized for moves or for pushes, but sometimes is failed finding
  the shortest path when it should optimize for moves.
. The "mouse-over" hint for the solution button now includes the
  length of the best found solution(s).
. Minor changes.

Version 1.86
. Feature enhancement: When the window height drops below the threshold
  for showing all the buttons, a new button, "Menu", appears which 
  gives access to all functions for which there currently are no 
  visible buttons.
. Better button glyph for the button "Import from clipboard", thanks to
  Fred Minklei.
. Bugfix: If menu button transparency was disabled, i.e., when buttons
  were opaque, the edgesmoothing feature was disabled as well. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.85
. Bugfix (1.84): The program destroyed (!) levels when they were
  saved to a disk-file. (This version was so shortlived that hopefully
  nobody ever downloaded it.) In version 1.84, the program was supposed
  to trim trailing spaces in each board description line, but instead
  it removed leading spaces as well, in effect destroying the levels.
. Bugfix (1.64): Normally, the status bar is shown below the menu 
  buttons, but when the window height is reduced below the threshold
  for doing so, the status bar is shown next to the "Exit" button, 
  and in this situation the buttons "Browse" and "Replay" didn't show
  up, even when the space permitted it.
. New feature: Originally, the window height couldn't shrink below the
  height required to show all menu buttons. Now the lesser important
  buttons disappear when the window height drops below the threshold,
  thus, it's possible to work with rather small windows.

Version 1.84
. Levels with titles that could be interpreted as moves e.g., "Dull",
  were rejected by the file-reader. Now they more often are accepted,
  although the dillemma cannot be resolved in all circumstances.
. The file-writer used to fill board-lines with trailing spaces so all
  lines had the same width. These trailing spaces are now omitted.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.83
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.

Version 1.82
. Minor changes.

Version 1.81
. Bugfix (1.64): Importing moves from the clipboard can either be a 
  new snapshot or a continuation of current game. In the latter case,
  if the result was a new best solution, then this solution wasn't
  saved although a screen message said so.
. Minor enhancement: When moves are imported from the clipboard, the
  import isn't case-sensitive anymore, i.e., "lrud" can substitute
  "LRUD".
. Minor changes.

Version 1.80
. Bugfix (1.74): The 'Open' window had stopped updating the thumb-nail
  preview of the levels when the 'Snapshots' window had been activated
  from the main window.

Version 1.79
. Bugfix (1.30): If clipboard import of solutions to current level was 
  activated for more than one level during a session, it could under 
  special circumstances cause the 'Open' window to stop working 
  properly.

Version 1.78
. Minor changes.

Version 1.77
. Bugfix (1.73): "Open copy of a level" had stopped working.

Version 1.76
. Bugfix (1.73): Using the 'Open' window's filemanager function
  "Delete Level" didn't have any effect for level collection members. 
. Minor changes.

Version 1.75
. Bugfix (1.73): The 'Open' window offers some basic file-manager
  functions like "Copy", Rename", etc., but "Rename" didn't work
  properly if a level also had a title specified in the notes.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.74
. New feature: In settings, you can choose to use a sine filter for
  scaling background images to fill the game window. This is slower
  than the old bilinear filtering, but the image quality is much 
  better.
. Bugfix (1.64): The browse-mode was far too slow when the board had
  its own background activated. By mistake, the program rebuilt the 
  background image for each browsing step, a very time-consuming
  task involving image scaling and filtering.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.73
. Added a directory-history and a file-history to the 'Open' window.
  The program has always loaded the most recently used level when the
  program starts, but a pleasant side-effect of the new file-history
  is, that this feature now also applies when a previously loaded
  level-collection is re-opened.
. File-manager functions (copy, move, delete, etc.) in the 'Open'
  window now uses the standard "Save File" dialogue instead of
  simple text input.
. When solutions are written to a file, the headline now contains
  the number of moves and pushes, e.g., "Solution/Moves 354/117".
. When a level is solved, the notification message now shows the
  number of moves and pushes for the best found solution(s).
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Bugfix (1.72): Built-in levels lost their timings, if any, when a
  newer version of the program was installed on top of an old one.
. Bugfix (1.30): Sokoban files either declare level-titles in a
  headline before the board or in a key-value pair in the level-notes,
  but illegal characters, e.g., ":" and "\", were only filtered out
  when the first method was used. As a side-effect, importing a
  single affected level from the clipboard required the user to
  save it manually, i.e., the level wasn't saved automatically.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.72
. New optional feature: Timing each level.
. Bugfix (1.45): Importing a built-in solution which made both a
  solution/moves and a solution/pushes obsolete didn't refresh the
  screen properly. The solution/pushes didn't disappear from the
  'Open' window until next time the level was loaded.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.71
. Windows XP compatibility: On Win98, move-animation can emit a sound
  for each step. On XP/2000, the system has much higher latencies
  before playing a sound, in effect destroying the move-animation.
  Hence, animated moves now only emit a single sound for the last
  step.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.70
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Bugfix (1.00): The 'Options' window stopped showing images after
  trying to select a non-sound file as a sound-effect or music-file.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.69
. Bugfix (1.68): Touching the 'Replay Speed' slider with the mouse
  caused havoc to all sounds accompanying box-pushes and player-moves.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.68
. Bugfix (1.64): The new button 'Open Copy of Level' caused flicker
  when the 'Open' window was activated.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.67
. Windows XP compatibility: The music player did not always detect
  end-of-file correctly on machines using Windows XP, hence, the
  player stopped after playing one file.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.66
. Better user interface to the replay feature.
. Bugfix (1.30): Sorting snapshots on number of pushes actually
  sorted on moves instead.
. Minor changes.


Version 1.65
. Bugfix (1.64): 5-6 minor bugs related to the new features have been
  fixed.
. Added new "YASGen" level, including built-in solution.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.64
. New feature: Click-less browse mode, i.e., it's possible to browse
  through the moves of the game by pointing at hot-spots on the
  screen without mouse-clicks.
. New feature: Click-less replay mode, i.e., it's possible to enter
  and leave replay mode by pointing at hot-spots on the screen without
  mouse-clicks.
. New feature: The 'Open Level' window offers the choice to open a
  copy of a level instead of the original. This is convenient in 
  case the original file must not be modified.
. New feature: The clipboard import now also supports continuations of
  current game, i.e., moves to be concatenated to current position.
. New feature: Separate keyboard short-cuts for showing best solution/
  moves and best solution/pushes, in case the user has one of both.
. New feature: Saved games have always been "pretty-printed" with a
  fixed number of moves per line (70). This is now optional so it's
  possible to have all moves written in a single unbroken line.
. Minor changes. 

Version 1.63
. Improved the replay mode so a game can be animated backwards as well
  as forwards. Double-clicking a non-legal square enters replay mode.
. Increased game history from 20000 moves to 65000 moves. (Changed
  again in version 1.302 to 100000 moves.)
. Minor changes.


Version 1.62
. Added built-in solutions to more of Grigoriev's levels.

Version 1.61
. The 'Open' window didn't distinguish between files without any
  Sokoban levels and files which couldn't be loaded because of syntax
  errors. Now it shows a more informative message in the latter case
  instead of simply saying that the file doesn't contain any levels.

Version 1.60
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Added built-in solutions to more of Grigoriev's levels.
. Added new "YASGen" level, including built-in solution.

Version 1.59
. Added built-in solutions to many of Grigoriev's levels.
. Replaced the YASGen level "Crius" by a longer version.

Version 1.58
. New feature: When the program is installed on top of an old version
  it merges new levels and built-in solutions, if any, into the
  existing level-collections. Previous versions didn't touch the
  installed collections at all, so they at least didn't remove the
  user's solutions to any of the built-in levels.
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Added new "YASGen" levels, including built-in solutions.
. Added a more thorough description of the file-format. Additionally,   
  the file-writer automatically updates existing level-files with the
  newest description.
. New feature: The level-editor can flip levels horizontally and
  vertically.
. Bugfix: The space character worked as a short-cut for closing the
  'Open' window, even when the user was editing level notes, hence,
  it was impossible to do any editing.
. Bugfix (1.30): If the program faced a disk i/o-error when it saved
  a level to disk, the error itself was handled gracefully, but the
  program terminated with a fatal error next time it opened or saved a
  level.
. Bugfix (1.30): Files using numbers as level titles were not
  recognized as proper Sokoban files. (A text-line with a number was
  parsed as run-length encoded moves.)
. Bugfix (1.00): The music-player's 'Open' window reported a range
  error exception if the track list was empty when the window was
  activated.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.57
. Added new levels by Evgeny Grigoriev.
. Bugfix (1.30): After importing a level from the clipboard there was
  a problem with clipboard-import of solutions to the level during the
  same session. The level wasn't updated if it had a title; the
  program made a duplicate of the level and updated that instead.

Version 1.56
. Added new level by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solution.
. Bugfix (1.30): Browsing through a level's snapshots sometimes
  showed the topline of the grid (the level title) twice.
. Bugfix (1.00): Users must answer the control question 'Save it -
  yes/no?', if they make a new level in the editor and returns to
  the main window without explicitly telling what to do with the new
  level. If the answer was 'no', the original game didn't reappear
  in the main window as one would expect.

Version 1.55
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Added new 'Sasquatch VI' levels by David W. Skinner.
. Windows XP compatibility: The music player did not detect
  end-of-file correctly for midi-files on machines using Windows XP, 
  hence, the player stopped after playing one midi-file.
. Bugfix (1.00): A level-title with double-quotes caused problems
  if the title should be used as a filename, since Windows doesn't
  allow this character. Now double-quotes are converted to single-
  quotes.
. Bugfix (1.30): The program rejected non-optimal solutions to 
  current level when they were imported from the clipboard. Now they
  appear as normal snapshots.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.54
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood, including built-in solutions.
. Added new levels by Evgeny Grigoriev.
. Bugfix (1.30): After successive imports of levels from the
  clipboard without saving the new levels, the 'Open' window lost the 
  name of the last valid filename. Therefore the window started out
  next time showing the root-directory instead of last active
  directory.

Version 1.53
. Bugfix (1.30): After changing the function of a right-click, the 
  hint text for the "Reset" button was not updated accordingly; it was
  first updated next time a level was loaded.

Version 1.52
. Bugfix (1.48): "Fireworks" was still listed in "Settings", although
  this eye-candy has been removed.
. Bugfix (1.00): The settings screen could not recognize palette files
  before the music player eye-candy "Fractals" had been activated.

Version 1.51
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood.
. Bugfix (1.48): "Fireworks" was still listed in the "Activities"
  menu, although this eye-candy has been removed.

Version 1.50
. Bugfix (1.30): Blocking simple illegal moves can be disabled from
  the settings screen, but it only worked for current session, i.e., 
  next time the program was launched, blocking was enabled again.

Version 1.49
. Added new levels by Evgeny Grigoriev.
. Illegal moves triggered a sound for keyboard input only. Now the
  sound also is played for illegal moves made with the mouse.
. Bugfix (1.00): The program crashed in situations where it had to
  load large images (e.g., 2000 x 3000 pixels) in jpg-format.
. Bugfix (1.00): On a Windows system with minimum screen resolution,
  i.e., 640 x 480 pixels, the screen was not updated properly.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.48
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood.
. Added built-in solutions to some of Grigoriev's levels.
. Minor changes.


Version 1.47
. Added new levels by Lee J Haywood.
. Added the "bagatelle2" and "cantrip2" collections by David Holland.

Version 1.46
. Bugfix (1.00): The sound effects now also work on machines using
  Windows 2000 or newer Windows versions.

Version 1.45
. New feature: All built-in solutions are "hidden", but may be
  imported via the 'Open' window. This feature is not backwards
  compatible, so if the program is installed on top of an older
  version, all existing solutions are credited to the user.
. Bugfix (1.30): Solutions with a non-standard name were lost next
  time the level was changed. (This could only happen when a file
  was edited manually.)
. Bugfix (1.30): The file-format specification mistakingly declared
  level-titles and snapshot-titles as optional. In fact, they are
  required if there is a risk of confusing a title and a single line
  comment belonging to a previous level or snapshot.
. Bugfix (1.30): Disable "Move back" handled as "Undo move" had
  stopped working.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.44
. Added a new level collection by Evgeny Grigoriev.
. Added a new level collection by Lee J Haywood.
. Bugfix (1.30): Importing a single level, as opposed to a complete
  collection, failed if the level had a title. (The level was never
  saved.)
. Minor changes.

Version 1.43
. Allowing jumps after first box-move in a reverse mode game is now
  only an option, default setting is "not allowed".

Version 1.42
. Bugfix (1.41): Some of the built-in sound effects were wrong.
  They had been mixed up due to the file-bug repaired in v. 1.41.
. Bugfix (1.30): When a level was saved as a new file, the new name
  did not show up in the 'Snapshots' window.
. Bugfix (1.30): The 'mouse-over-button' sound was not played when
  the mouse cursor left a button and returned again without touching
  another button first.
. Bugfix (1.30): A runtime error occured in this situation: Load a
  level containing one or more snapshots, open the editor, modify
  the level and save it as a new file, save it once more as a new
  file, but this time with the original name, and finally, close the
  editor window.
. Bugfix (1.30): A right-click is an easy shortcut to leave the
  editor window as long as nothing has been modified, but the
  right-click "fell through" and also restarted the level.

Version 1.41
. Bugfix (1.00): External sound-effect wav-files were destroyed
  next time the user tried to attach another file to that particular
  sound event.
. Bugfix (1.39): An old saved game from a previous session should be
  deleted after opening and closing a level, even if no moves have
  been made (in order to clean the level-file so it is not filled 
  with garbage). This feature had been disabled by mistake.
. Added solutions to all the "Sasquatch" levels by David W. Skinner.
. When a level is solved using reverse mode, the resulting normal
  mode solution is slightly modified with respect to combined moves,
  so it looks like the level was solved in normal mode.
  (Non-box-moves are attached to the following box-move. Using the
  exact inverse of the reverse mode game would result in combined
  moves with the box-move first.)

Version 1.40
. Added solutions to all the "dh1" levels by David Holland.
. Bugfix (1.20): "Un-doing" and "re-doing" a combined move corrupted
  the screen when move-animation was turned off, and the move included
  more than one box, and the moves overlapped. (This can only occur
  when a level-file is edited by hand.)

Version 1.39
. New feature: Concatenate a snapshot with current position to form
  a complete solution when they match.
. New feature: Restore saved position when a level is re-opened
  (optional).
. Minor changes.

Version 1.38
. When showing the player's legal moves in a reverse mode game, the
  normal moves and the jumps are highlighted separately.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.37
. When showing the legal moves a box can make, the box itself is
  highlighted as well as the legal squares.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.36
. Added solutions to all the "Maelstrom" levels by David Holland.
. Minor changes.

Version 1.35
. Bugfix (1.00): On Win95 machines the 'pusher' sometimes left strange
  pixels behind when it was moved around.
  (Fixed by always using even tile sizes.)

Version 1.34
. Added a few experimental options.

Version 1.33
. The program now terminates gracefully if the Windows display-driver
  is changed while the program is active.
. Bugfix (1.00): On a machine using 16-bit colors instead of 32-bit
  colors, the music-player image was not masked properly.

Version 1.32
. If the mouse has a wheel, the function of a right-click defaults to
  "Reset level" instead of "Undo move".
. Bugfix (1.00): On rare occasions a move left a trail after the box
  (A timing problem connected to "Banker's rounding to even number"
  versus "Standard rounding to nearest number").

Version 1.31
. Added cursor settings.
. Bugfix (1.30): Clicking the board image in the 'Snapshots' window
  sometimes caused flicker.
. The function of a right-click defaults to "Undo move" instead of
  "Reset level".

Version 1.30
. New feature: Reverse mode play, i.e., try to solve a level
  backwards. Sometimes, this feature comes in handy when solving 
  difficult levels.
. New feature: Snapshots, i.e., make a list of promising 
  part-solutions during the solving process.
. New feature: Clicking on a box or the pusher, the legal moves
  are highlighted.
. Limits changed to 50 x 50 squares, 500 boxes, and 20000 moves.
  (The moves limit changed again in version 1.63 to 65000 moves,
  and again in 1.302 to 100000 moves. Version 1.467 changed the box
  limit to 1200.)
. Added the "Cantrip" levels by David Holland.
. Added the "Mas Microban" levels by David W. Skinner.
. New file format, with support for games/snapshots/bookmarks in
  LRUD-format (Left/Right/Up/Down).
. The game core has been rewritten, so it has a clean separation
  of the kernel and the user-interface.
. Background images are now antialiased (optional). (Walls, boxes,
  goals, etc. have always been antialiased.)
. Main menu and statusbar now have shadowed text (optional).
. New feature: The level editor now has a rotate function.
. Bugfix (1.00): When renaming a file after renaming a level in a
  collection, the dialog-box stripped all "\" from the suggested
  filename.
. Bugfix (1.00): Foreign button-images with a non-black background
  color were not masked properly.
. Bugfix (1.00): The program crashed during shutdown, if the image-
  viewer was current activity in the music-player window, and the
  settings-dialog was opened, and the program was closed without 
  activating the music-player window.
. Minor text changes.

Version 1.26
. Faster pathfinding algorithm: Better estimate of distance from each
  square to the goal square.
. Bugfix (1.21): The screen was corrupted when move-animation was
  turned off, and first move (with one drag-and-drop) was taken back
  and substituted with a new move of the same length. 

Version 1.25
. Pathfinding improved when it optimizes for pushes: If there are
  several paths with the same number of pushes but with different
  number of moves, then the shortest one, counting moves, is chosen.
. Saving best solutions automatically is now optional, default 'on'.
. Minor text changes.

Version 1.24
. Bugfix (1.21): "Undo-ing" a move corrupted the screen when
  move-animation was turned off, and "Undo" was activated after
  resizing then screen while replaying a game.
. Bugfix (1.20): The pathfinding algorithm could under special
  circumstances pick a move-optimal route even if it should
  optimize for pushes. 
. Minor text changes.

Version 1.23
. Bugfix (1.21): "Undo-ing" a move corrupted the screen when
  move-animation was turned off, and "Undo" was activated after
  a user-break while replaying a game, and the break took place
  during a combined move involving a box.
. Minor text changes.

Version 1.22
. Bugfix (1.21): "Undo-ing" a move corrupted the screen when 
  move-animation was turned off, and a box was moved from a
  goal-square to a non-goal-square.
. Bugfix (1.21): The pause before "Show Solution" to show the
  starting position had disappeared.
. Saving and loading games now recognize combined moves
  information.
. Minor text changes.

Version 1.21
. When move animation is turned off, moves are now really shown
  instantly.
. Bugfix (1.20): Pathfinding with intersecting paths: on rare
  occasions, the algorithm failed to find a path.
. Bugfix (1.20): Undo/redo combined moves: on rare occasions, 
  too many moves were considered part of the combined move.
. Bugfix (1.20): A right-click used as a short-cut to close the
  music-player "fell through" and restarted the level or 
  restored the last bookmark as a normal right-click.
. Minor text changes.

Version 1.20
. Move animation is now optional, default 'on'.
. Mouse tracking is now optional, default 'off'
. Pathfinding allows intersecting paths.
. "Undo" and "Redo" handle combined moves (optional, default 'on').
. Bugfix (1.00): Keyboard repetition could trigger multiple
  'return to previous bookmark'.
. Bugfix (1.10): only 255 of the promised 300 boxes worked properly
. Minor text changes.

Version 1.10
. Added more than 400 levels by David W. Skinner.
. Added solutions to all the levels by Yoshio Murase.
. Increased size limits: 36 x 36 squares, 300 boxes.
  (Changed again in version 1.30 to 50 x 50 squares, 500 boxes, 20000
  moves.)
  (Changed again in version 1.63 to 65000 moves.)
  (Changed again in version 1.302 to 100000 moves and 1000 boxes.)
  (Changed again in version 1.467 to 1200 boxes.)
. Minor text changes.

Version 1.00
. First release.

------------
